{"SLR NAME":"Effective public health measures to mitigate the spread of COVID 19: a systematic review","SlR References":[{"doi":"10.2196/24598","date":"2020-12-08","title":"The Use of Digital Tools to Mitigate the COVID-19 Pandemic: Comparative Retrospective Study of Six Countries","abstract":"Background\nSince the COVID-19 outbreak began in Wuhan, China, countries worldwide have been forced to take unprecedented measures to combat it.\n\n While some countries are still grappling with the COVID-19 pandemic, others have fared better and have re-established relative normalcy quickly.\n\n The rapid transmission rate of the virus has shown a greater need for efficient and technologically modern containment measures.\n\n The use of digital tools to facilitate strict containment measures in countries that have fared well against the COVID-19 pandemic has sparked both interest and controversy.\n\n\nObjective\nIn this study, we compare the precautions taken against the spread of COVID-19 in the United States, Spain, and Italy, with Taiwan, South Korea, and Singapore, particularly related to the use of digital tools for contact tracing, and propose policies that could be used in the United States for future COVID-19 waves or pandemics.\n\n\nMethods\nCOVID-19 death rate data were obtained from the European Center for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC), accessed through the Our World in Data database, and were evaluated based on population size per 100,000 people from December 31, 2019, to September 6, 2020. All policies and measures enacted were obtained from their respective governmental websites.\n\n\nResults\nWe found a strong association between lower death rates per capita and countries that implemented early mask use and strict border control measures that included mandatory quarantine using digital tools.\n\n There is a significant difference in the number of deaths per 100,000 when comparing Taiwan, South Korea, and Singapore with the United States, Spain, and Italy.\n\n\nConclusions\nBased on our research, it is evident that early intervention with the use of digital tools had a strong correlation with the successful containment of COVID-19. Infection rates and subsequent deaths in Italy, Spain, and the United States could have been much lower with early mask use and, more importantly, timely border control measures using modern digital tools.\n\n Thus, we propose that the United States execute the following national policies should a public health emergency be declared: (1) immediately establish a National Command responsible for enacting strict mandatory guidelines enforced by federal and state governments, including national mask use; (2) mandate civilian cooperation with health officials in contact tracing and quarantine orders; and (3) require incoming travelers to the United States and those quarantined to download a contact tracing app.\n\n We acknowledge the countries we studied differ in their cultures, political systems, and reporting criteria for COVID-19 deaths.\n\n Further research may need to be conducted to address these limitations; however, we believe that the proposed policies could protect the American public.\n\n\n","id":"PMC7759507","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"JMIR Publications","authors":[{"firstname":"Gunther","surname":"Eysenbach","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":" Nikki","surname":"Lam","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":" Nikki","surname":"Lam","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":" Benjamin","surname":"Woo","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":" Kylie","surname":"Zeng","email":"kzeng2@student.touro.edu","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":" Kylie","surname":"Zeng","email":"kzeng2@student.touro.edu","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":" Stephanie N","surname":"Bernardo","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":" Stephanie N","surname":"Bernardo","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":" Weldon E","surname":"Havins","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":" Weldon E","surname":"Havins","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}],"Full Text":"The Use of Digital Tools to Mitigate the COVID-19 Pandemic: Comparative Retrospective Study of Six Countries\nBackground\nSince the COVID-19 outbreak began in Wuhan, China, countries worldwide have been forced to take unprecedented measures to combat it. While some countries are still grappling with the COVID-19 pandemic, others have fared better and have re-established relative normalcy quickly. The rapid transmission rate of the virus has shown a greater need for efficient and technologically modern containment measures. The use of digital tools to facilitate strict containment measures in countries that have fared well against the COVID-19 pandemic has sparked both interest and controversy.\nObjective\nIn this study, we compare the precautions taken against the spread of COVID-19 in the United States, Spain, and Italy, with Taiwan, South Korea, and Singapore, particularly related to the use of digital tools for contact tracing, and propose policies that could be used in the United States for future COVID-19 waves or pandemics.\nMethods\nCOVID-19 death rate data were obtained from the European Center for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC), accessed through the Our World in Data database, and were evaluated based on population size per 100,000 people from December 31, 2019, to September 6, 2020. All policies and measures enacted were obtained from their respective governmental websites.\nResults\nWe found a strong association between lower death rates per capita and countries that implemented early mask use and strict border control measures that included mandatory quarantine using digital tools. There is a significant difference in the number of deaths per 100,000 when comparing Taiwan, South Korea, and Singapore with the United States, Spain, and Italy.\nConclusions\nBased on our research, it is evident that early intervention with the use of digital tools had a strong correlation with the successful containment of COVID-19. Infection rates and subsequent deaths in Italy, Spain, and the United States could have been much lower with early mask use and, more importantly, timely border control measures using modern digital tools. Thus, we propose that the United States execute the following national policies should a public health emergency be declared: (1) immediately establish a National Command responsible for enacting strict mandatory guidelines enforced by federal and state governments, including national mask use; (2) mandate civilian cooperation with health officials in contact tracing and quarantine orders; and (3) require incoming travelers to the United States and those quarantined to download a contact tracing app. We acknowledge the countries we studied differ in their cultures, political systems, and reporting criteria for COVID-19 deaths. Further research may need to be conducted to address these limitations; however, we believe that the proposed policies could protect the American public.\nIntroduction\nSince the COVID-19 outbreak began, countries across the world have been forced to take unprecedented measures to combat it. By March 13, 2020, the World Health Organization (WHO) officially declared the COVID-19 outbreak as a pandemic. In response, many countries have employed aggressive measures to try to contain the pandemic; the different approaches have yielded varying levels of success. Learning from the harsh experiences of the severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) and Middle East respiratory syndrome (MERS) epidemics, Taiwan, Singapore, and South Korea have since enacted legislation and policies in the event of another epidemiological disaster. By employing technology like contact tracing apps and global positioning system (GPS) tracking, these countries have had early success in flattening the curve and keeping death rates low. In contrast, Italy, Spain, and the United States had difficulty managing the spread of the virus despite enforcing national lockdowns and stay-at-home orders. In this study, we compare the precautions taken by various countries against the spread of COVID-19, particularly the use of digital tools in contact tracing, and propose policies that could be used in the United States for future COVID-19 waves or pandemics.\nGiven the nature of the virus and its rapid transmission, countries around the world have had to rely on nonpharmaceutical measures to mitigate the spread of the virus and reduce the number of new infections. In response, considerable measures including the use of digital contact tracing tools, physical distancing, stay-at-home orders, nationwide lockdowns, and mask requirements have been introduced. Despite these stringent actions, the degree to which these measures were adopted and the subsequent outcomes have varied substantially among countries, with only a few countries having managed to keep the outbreak well controlled.\nWhile stay-at-home orders and nationwide lockdowns assist in &quot;flattening the curve,&quot; they are not economically feasible. Traditionally, contact tracing is performed manually by trained personnel and relies on human memory. However, due to the virus's rapid transmission and long incubation period, these methods are considered slow, laborious, and are prone to error.\nFollowing the 2003 SARS epidemic, Taiwan and Singapore took the necessary legal and structural precautions to prepare for possible future outbreaks. More recently, the 2015 MERS outbreak in South Korea resulted in the Korean Government supporting hospitals nationwide in setting up negative pressure rooms. The epidemics these countries have faced in the past 20 years have not only prepared the governments, but also the general public for the current COVID-19 pandemic.\nCurrently, the use of digital tools to facilitate strict containment measures has sparked both interest and controversy. In Taiwan, mobile phone-based &quot;electronic fencing&quot; uses phone signals to monitor self-quarantine compliance. As for South Korea, in addition to mandated self-isolation protocols, travelers and returning residents are required to install the Self-Quarantine Safety Protection app or Self Diagnosis app, which use mobile GPS tracking. The history of medical facility use and pharmacy visits, credit card transaction logs, and closed circuit television (CCTV) have also been implemented to aid in patient identification. Singapore's opt-in TraceTogether app uses Bluetooth to exchange time-limited tokens between app users in close proximity, which are then sent to a central server. Although these tools pose privacy concerns, they nonetheless contributed to these countries' early success in disease management. Countries who had higher death rates, such as the United States, Italy, and Spain, have only recently implemented or considered proposing similar approaches. Although these countries differ in their culture and policies, implementing digital tools in conjunction with other interventions can serve as a useful tool to help countries achieve containment.\nMethods\nCOVID-19 death rate data were obtained from the European Center for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC), accessed through the Our World in Data database. Death rates were evaluated via descriptive statistics based on population size per 100,000 people from December 31, 2019, to September 6, 2020. Table 1 shows total deaths per 100,000 as of September 6, 2020. Figure 1 shows the total COVID-19 death rate per 100,000 people in each country from December 31, 2019, to September 6, 2020, measured in 7-day intervals. In Figures 2-7, we compared new total daily COVID-19 deaths Taiwan, South Korea, Singapore, the United States, Italy, and Spain. The data is fitted with a moving average trend line. All events labeled on the graphs were obtained from their respective governmental websites. Dates when lockdowns, policies, and contact tracing digital tools were enacted or launched are marked on the graphs. In Figures 2-7, the graph shows the daily new deaths per 100,000 (blue line) for each country, fitted with a 7-day moving average (solid red). Dates digital contact tracing tools were launched (yellow), dates countries were placed on lockdown (black dash), dates masks were suggested/enforced (green dash), and dates border control measures were initiated (purple dash) for each country are marked on the graphs. Policies for Taiwan, South Korea, Singapore, the United States, Italy, and Spain were found on respective governmental websites.\nTable 1 compares total COVID-19 deaths per capita between each country. Overall, Spain and Italy have the highest total death per capita, respectively. However, total death rates per capita for both seem to have plateaued. It is unclear whether the United States is reaching a plateau. Comparatively, Singapore, South Korea, and Taiwan have almost negligible total death rates per capita.\nTotal COVID-19 deaths per 100,000 people by country as of September 6, 2020.\nCountry	COVID-19 deaths per 100,000	 	Spain	62.92	 	Italy	58.77	 	United States	56.96	 	South Korea	0.65	 	Singapore	0.46	 	Taiwan	0.03	 	\nTotal COVID-19 deaths per 100,000 people by country from December 31, 2019, to September 6, 2020. Overall, Spain and Italy had the highest total deaths per capita. However, total death rates per capita for both have seem to have plateaued. It is unclear whether the United States (US) is reaching a plateau. Comparatively, Singapore, South Korea, and Taiwan had almost negligible total death rates per capita.\nDaily new deaths per 100,000 people for Taiwan from December 31, 2019, to September 6, 2020.\nDaily new deaths per 100,000 people for South Korea from December 31, 2019, to September 6, 2020.\nDaily new deaths per 100,000 people for Singapore from December 31, 2019, to September 6, 2020. ASEAN: Association of Southeast Asian Nations; SHN: Stay-Home Notice.\nDaily new deaths per 100,000 people for the United States from December 31, 2019, to September 6, 2020.\nDaily new deaths per 100,000 people for Italy from December 31, 2019, to September 6, 2020.\nDaily new deaths per 100,000 in Spain from December 31, 2019, to September 6, 2020.\nResults\nAs seen in Figure 1, there is a significant difference in the number of deaths per 100,000 when comparing Taiwan, South Korea, and Singapore versus the United States, Spain, and Italy. Most notably, Spain had the highest total number of deaths per 100,000 despite a later initial rise in cases than Italy. Of note, Spain miscounted the number of deaths during the period of May 24-25, 2020, and there have been discrepancies regarding the number of deaths Spain reported to the European CDC for June. Actual values could be higher than reported values given a lack of testing and data lag. Although the United States' total death per capita is less than that of Italy and Spain, it has not plateaued. Taiwan, Singapore, and South Korea had almost negligible values.\nDiscussion\nPrincipal Findings\nWhile approaches to mitigating the pandemic differ by country, similarities in practices of countries with low death rates have perhaps highlighted what methods are effective. As shown in Figures 2-7, countries with lower death rates per capita implemented strict border control measures that included mandatory quarantine. We found that the use of digital tools and early, centralized action in Taiwan, South Korea, and Singapore were associated with their low COVID-19 death rates and the containment of COVID-19, as seen in Figures 2-4. Additionally, these countries suggested mask use and set up online mask rationing systems during the early stages of the outbreak. Granted, there are cultural differences that may contribute to lower death rates. For example, in Asia, mask-wearing is a social norm, especially after the SARS outbreak. Taiwan, South Korea, and Singapore also implemented measures to provide clear and accurate information to the public, making sure to clarify any misinformation spread among the public swiftly. The reasons for their success are multifaceted; however, the use of digital tools and early, centralized action are common among Taiwan, South Korea, and Singapore. Countries with higher death rates, such as Spain, Italy, and the United States, operated in a decentralized and antiquated manner. As seen in Figures 5-7, representing the aforementioned countries, it can be seen that policies were enacted just as the death rate started to climb and peak. Although lockdowns in these countries have helped in flattening the curve, they were implemented when it was likely too late to contain the spread of the virus, and high death rates were inevitable.\nTaiwan\nWith only 7 reported deaths as of September 6, 2020, Taiwan did not initiate a national lockdown. Figure 2 and Table 1 show that Taiwan's death rate has been low, indicating that their policies enacted well before their first confirmed case allowed them to successfully contain the spread of COVID-19 very early on. Reasons for their success are multifaceted but can in part be attributed to Taiwan's use of big data analytics and the variety of modern digital tools used to establish mask distribution, strict border control, and mandatory quarantines. Additionally, Taiwan government's took immediate and centralized action. By January 20, 2020, Taiwan's Central Epidemic Command Center (CECC) was established as a national, centralized agency solely to combat the emerging threat of COVID-19.\nThe Taiwanese government launched the Name-Based Mask Distribution System on February 3, 2020. This was a national online mask distribution system that allocated masks through local pharmacies and public health centers. This system to allow citizens to purchase masks directly online or through an app called &quot;NHI Express-My Health Bank&quot;. The masks could then be picked up at the closest convenience store.\nUsing technology and lessons learned from the SARS epidemic, Taiwan has standardized fever screenings of arriving airport passengers since 2003 to secure their borders from imported infections. From December 31, 2019, to January 23, 2020, immediately after learning of a possible outbreak in Wuhan, Taiwan began onboard quarantine inspections of all direct flights from Wuhan, China. As more details about COVID-19 began to come to light, Taiwan required all arriving passengers from China, Hong Kong, and Macao (including those transiting through such areas) to fill out a health declaration form and be placed under home quarantine for 14 days as of February 7, 2020. This measure was extended to all incoming passengers on February 11. By February 16, the Taiwanese government launched the &quot;Health Declaration and Home Quarantine E-System&quot; to expedite immigration clearance for all incoming travelers. Travelers with mobile phones can scan a QR code before their flights or upon arrival in Taiwan. A health pass is then sent to their phone via SMS text messaging, which they can then show to immigration for faster clearance. If immigration deems that an individual has to be quarantined, their mobile number will be recorded for GPS surveillance. For those without a Taiwanese mobile number, airport quarantine staff will provide a Taiwanese mobile phone (only at Taoyuan International Airport) or a SIM card. Shortly after the WHO declared the COVID-19 pandemic, Taiwan closed its borders to all foreign nationals on March 19, 2020. All incoming Taiwanese nationals are required to quarantine for 15 days upon arrival from any country. These border measures may have allowed Taiwan to reduce incoming cases before there was evidence that the virus could spread asymptomatically and before the COVID-19 outbreak escalated into a pandemic.\nThe use of digital tools in mandatory quarantines has also been attributed to Taiwan's successful response to the COVID-19 crisis. Using mobile phone positioning technology and big data analytics, Taiwan's CECC teamed up with 5 major telecom operators to &quot;electronically fence&quot; people placed under quarantine via positioning data of their mobile phones in relation to local cell towers. If the person under quarantine leaves their designated area, local public health officials are notified via SMS text messaging and police can be sent to the quarantine site immediately. In addition, 2 random calls per day are conducted to make sure the person under quarantine has their phone with them. After quarantine is over, geolocation tracking is suspended, and all collected data is deleted as mandated by the Personal Data Protection Act. The application of digital tools to bolster border protocols and mask distribution early in Taiwan seems to have had a significant role in containing COVID-19.\nSouth Korea\nAs seen in Table 1, South Korea's death rate per 100,000 is 0.58, which is low compared to the United States, Spain, and Italy; this was achieved without enforcing a national lockdown. Effectively applying information and communication technology, Korea used GPS tracing and self-quarantine/diagnosis apps to combat the spread of COVID-19. To address the public's concerns over mask shortages, the South Korean government took measures to develop a distribution system. On March 9, a 5-day mask distribution system was launched to provide the public with a database on mask availability at different retailers.\nAt the border, South Korea implemented special entry procedures for travelers from Mainland China on February 2, 2020, and extended these measures to include Hong Kong and Macau by February 12. Incoming travelers were required to undergo temperature screenings and download the Self-Diagnosis App, developed by the Korean government to monitor symptoms and provide users with immediate medical advice. After providing identifying information (passport information, nationality, name, address), travelers would have to provide their health condition through the app once per day. Data collected is directly sent to local government public health clinics under the direction of the Korean Center of Disease Control (KCDC). If the traveler reports relevant symptoms for &gt;2 days, local governments can enforce COVID-19 testing. Daily warnings are put in for noncompliance with daily data entering. By the fourth warning, local police are sent to track down the individual. By April 9, the app was downloaded by approximately 170,000 travelers, allowing appropriate action taken for 9000 individuals who developed possible symptoms during their mandatory health monitoring period.\nOn March 7, 2020, the Self-Quarantine Safety Protection App was launched. The app functioned similarly to the Self-Diagnosis app, with the added function of GPS tracking to prevent individuals from violating self-quarantine orders. As of April 1, 2020, all incoming travelers, including Korean nationals, were subject to a 14-day quarantine and required to download one of the apps upon arrival. European and US nationals with short-term visas and all symptomatic inbound travelers were immediately tested at the airport and transferred to quarantine facilities. All others and symptomatic travelers negative for COVID-19 are required to be quarantined for 14 days and download either of the two apps. Overseas roaming data was used to identify and monitor individuals traveling from high-risk countries for the duration of the incubation period.\nDue to the increasingly heavy workload for contact tracers, the Korean government officially launched the COVID-19 Epidemiological Investigation Support System on March 26, 2020. Governmental agencies collaborated with telecommunication companies, 22 credit card companies, and the Credit Finance Association of Korea to design a streamlined platform that allowed contact tracers to immediately identify transmission routes of an infected individual using GPS location, CCTV, and credit card transactions. This platform significantly expedited the contact tracing process, allowing local contact tracers to easily identify possible cluster outbreaks and act accordingly. Prior to the launch of the COVID-19 Epidemiological Investigation Support System, contact tracers would have to submit location information requests related to patients to the National Police Agencies and various telecommunication companies, which typically took up to 24 hours per case. Handwritten records were kept for each case. The new system expedited this process to 10 minutes per case and allowed for automated tracking records. To protect the privacy of citizens, only KCDC officials and contact tracers in charge have the security clearance to access this data.\nAdditionally, the KCDC releases the movements of de-identified positive cases to the public in an effort to be transparent about possible spread. From this publicly released data, private companies began creating apps that notified users at high risk of exposure and immediately provided directions to the nearest testing sites. Tech companies have also developed apps that use data about masks sold at public retailers provided by the Korean government to make buying them easy for the public. By using digital tools for border containment measures, for streamlined data collection for contact tracers, and to provide transparency to the general public, Korea was able to swiftly employ objective, data-based public health policies to combat COVID-19 both at their borders and within their communities. Thus, the country's low death rate per 100,000 without enacting a national lockdown may be in part attributed to their use of digital tools in an efficient and responsible manner.\nSingapore\nAs a city-state consisting of 5.7 million people and serving as one of Southeast Asia's global travel hubs, Singapore is highly susceptible to the transmission of communicable diseases. It was therefore critical that Singapore act swiftly in their COVID-19 containment efforts. Having experienced the SARS outbreak in 2003, Singapore modified its health care infrastructure to facilitate its response toward future outbreaks. In light of the current pandemic, Singapore's multifaceted approach toward containment, health care, border control, and community measures has proven to be effective. As of September 6, 2020, Singapore has had a total of 27 reported deaths and 0.46 total deaths per 100,000 people (Table 1).\nPrior to its first reported case on January 23, 2020, Singapore had already implemented strict border control measures. As early as January 3, Singapore performed temperature and health screenings for travelers arriving from Wuhan, China. These measures were eventually extended to all ports of entry by January 29. On January 31, 2020, Singapore introduced a 14-day leave of absence (LOA) to all Singaporean residents and long-term pass holders (LTPHs) returning from Mainland China. Those placed under the LOA were able to leave their place of residence when deemed necessary. However, in a matter of weeks, Singapore's Multi-Ministry Task Force introduced a stricter &quot;Stay-Home Notice&quot; (SHN), in which Singaporean residents, LTPHs, and short-term visitors entering the country were mandated to remain in their place of residence for 14 days. First applied to travelers returning from Mainland China effective February 18, this mandate was later extended to those with a recent travel history to high-risk countries listed in Figure 4. On March 23, all short-term travelers were banned from entering or transiting through the country. As of March 27, all incoming travelers arriving to Singapore, including residents and LTPHs, are required to submit a health declaration form via the SG-Arrival Card (SGAC) e-service using the web or mobile app before proceeding with immigration clearance. Travelers are also required to comply with the mandated 14-day SHN upon their arrival and are made fully aware of the penalties listed under the Infectious Disease Act should noncompliance ensue.\nSimilar to South Korea and Taiwan, the Singaporean government also heavily suggested public face mask use. On February 1, the government issued 4 surgical masks per household, with priority given to the most vulnerable populations. To address the subsequent rise in cases and shortage of surgical masks, the government later distributed reusable masks to all residents with a registered home address on April 3. Contrary to its successful counterparts, Singapore mandated mask use in public as of April 14.\nTo facilitate its contact tracing efforts, Singapore launched the TraceTogether app on March 20. Using Bluetooth technology, encrypted and anonymized identifiers are exchanged between participating devices in close proximity, which are then securely stored on the users' devices and a government server that can only be accessed by Singapore's Ministry of Health (MOH). All data is automatically deleted from users' devices after it has been stored for 25 days. Should an app user test positive for COVID-19 or become subjected to contact tracing, individuals will be contacted by health authorities and are required by law to share their encounter histories to assist with activity mapping and identifying close contacts. The effectiveness of the app, however, remains questionable. Since its launch, an estimated 20% of the population have downloaded the app. This lack of participation may be attributed to the fact that the app is voluntary. To further support contact tracing capabilities, additional digital tools were introduced. To ease Singapore's circuit breaker measures and enable safe reopening, on May 12, SafeEntry was deployed at entry/exit points of high-traffic areas including public venues, essential services, and businesses. This digital check-in system requires individuals to scan their personalized SafeEntry QR code or have their national identification card scanned at SafeEntry check-in counters. On June 8, the TraceTogether Token was introduced to address digitally excluded populations, such as older adults. Using Bluetooth in the absence of internet or cellular activity, this standalone device can record signals from nearby participating TraceTogether devices. Similarly to the TraceTogether app, all SafeEntry and TraceTogether Token data is encrypted and stored in the government server for a maximum of 25 days, and can only be accessed by health authorities for contact tracing purposes.\nWhile the TraceTogether app was not as successful as anticipated, the added use of SafeEntry and the TraceTogether Token demonstrates that Singapore remains heavily reliant on technology for contact tracing purposes. The use of these digital tools in addition to strict border measures and health precautions nonetheless demonstrates the significant role technology can have in epidemiological control.\nUnited States\nAlthough the United States has a lower total number of COVID-19 deaths per capita (56.96) when compared to Spain and Italy (Table 1), the total number of cases and deaths in the United States as of September 6, 2020, stand at 6,245,866 and 188,538, respectively. Additionally, while Spain and Italy seem to have reached a plateau in their total number of deaths per 100,000, as seen in Figure 1, the United States' numbers continue to increase. Although the United States appears to show a downward trend from mid-April to June, as of July, the death rate appears to be rising again (Figure 5).\nThe outcomes of the COVID-19 pandemic in the United States have been less than ideal, in part due to the country's delayed actions and uncoordinated national response. The first COVID-19 case in the United States was reported on January 20, 2020. However, it was not until March 13 that a national emergency was declared; the &quot;15 Days to Slow The Spread&quot; national effort was endorsed 3 days thereafter. Despite declaring a national emergency, a nationwide lockdown was not initiated. Similar to Italy and Spain, the United States responded to the pandemic in a &quot;patchwork&quot; manner. State governments and localities were primarily responsible for enforcing their public health measures, while the federal government provided minimal support. As a result, policies regarding lockdowns, border control, contact tracing, and mask use have varied by state.\nSince its first reported case in January, the United States applied travel bans to China (January 31), Iran (February 29), and Europe (March 11). On March 13, the Department of Homeland Security issued a Notice of Arrival Restriction. Under this order, American citizens, legal permanent residents, and immediate family members returning to the United States from high-risk COVID-19 areas can only travel through certain airports and are required to undergo an enhanced entry screening that includes completing a health declaration form upon arrival. Symptomatic travelers are referred to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) for further evaluation. Asymptomatic travelers are instructed to self-quarantine and monitor their health in accordance with CDC guidelines, and are contacted by health officials to ensure compliance with these measures. However, policies regarding domestic travel have varied by state. Although some states require incoming travelers to provide documentation, go through a health screening, complete COVID-19 testing, or quarantine, the majority of states do not have mandatory travel-related restrictions.\nAt the start of the pandemic, there had been limited evidence regarding asymptomatic transmission. Additionally, there were concerns about mask shortages for health care workers. As a result, US public health authorities did not initially recommend mask use in public. However, as the number of cases rose and new evidence regarding virus transmission was released, on April 3, the CDC issued guidelines recommending the use of cloth face masks in public. Although this was not required nationally, between April and May, only 15 states had issued mandates requiring the public use of face masks. Although these mandates have been issued, mandatory mask use and compliance has become a social and political issue in the United States. However, with the surge in cases occurring since reopening the economy, the number of states requiring masks to be worn statewide or at the local level has increased to 48.\nWith regard to contact tracing and quarantine orders, while the CDC provides the guidance and resources pertaining to these measures, state and local health departments are responsible for their practices. Prior to the pandemic, the United States used conventional methods of contact tracing, which heavily rely on the use of public health personnel to conduct extensive follow-up with infected individuals and close contacts, as well as manually log this information. However, the current pandemic has demonstrated that these methods are not feasible. The CDC estimates that the United States will need about 100,000 contact tracers to contain the next wave. Currently, many local health departments have only a limited number of trained personnel to pursue this task. Given these circumstances, other methods to increase contact tracing capacity have been considered, including hiring more government employees, recruiting volunteers, and using digital tools. Although some states have developed contact tracing apps or considered using them, many states have been reluctant to use such technology given privacy concerns and a lack of public adoption. As a result, many states have opted to rely solely traditional practices. We believe that efforts to use this digital tool on a national level would be more effective.\nDespite actions taken at the state and local level, the United States' delayed and decentralized response may have been a contributing factor to its high death rates. Had the United States enacted early universal policies using digital tools for border control, mask distribution, and contact tracing, these actions could have significantly reduced community transmission. As the number of cases and deaths continue to rise, it is all the more important that federal, state, and local governments work with each other and the public to combat the virus.\nItaly\nBy July 30, 2020, Italy's death rate per 100,000 was 58.10 (Table 1). As cases and deaths began to rise, the Italian government initiated lockdowns incrementally via territories. Starting on February 23, 2020, 11 municipalities were designated as the &quot;Red Zone.&quot; Italy gradually extended regions for lockdown, but was ultimately forced to designate the entire country as a &quot;protection zone&quot; and implement a national lockdown on March 11. During these lockdowns, citizens were asked to avoid any unnecessary excursions outside the home and were required to have a self-declaration form on hand when in public. Checkpoints were put in place by the police to ensure that the public was in compliance with these measures. Additionally, as of March 17, the government required citizens returning from abroad to self-isolate for 14 days. Although Italy's lockdown did eventually help flatten the curve, these measures were implemented at a time where such drastic measures were likely necessary to mitigate what would already inevitably be a high death rate. Figure 6 shows that the death rate peaked around March 31, 2020, three weeks after the national lockdown was implemented. It is likely that the spread of the virus in Italy at this time was beyond the threshold for containment measures.\nItaly's contact tracing and quarantine surveillance method relied heavily on traditional methods. Local public health operators are to call infected individuals to obtain information about the person's movement, areas of stay in the past 14 days, and possible close contacts. After getting in touch with potentially infected individuals, contact tracers are required to convey basic COVID-19 information and supervise adherence to quarantine measures by calling these individuals on a daily basis. Furthermore, contact tracers are required to explain the methods and purposes of home isolation if it is decided that an individual will have to be put under quarantine. Given the transmission method and incubation of COVID-19, such traditional contact tracing methods may be slow and inefficient, especially as the workload for contact tracers surges. Although Italy did impose a mandatory quarantine for those who tested positive, they implemented harsher penalties for violation of quarantine after their lockdown was enacted, around the time the death rate reached its peak, on March 26, 2020.\nAs the country started to enter their Phase 2 of reopening, the Italian government took various precautions to ensure safe reopening. As of May 4, 2020, wearing masks in public was made mandatory nationally. To enforce greater security at the border, travelers entering Italy after July 9, 2020, from any country other than European Union member states, the United Kingdom, Andorra, the Principality of Monaco, the Republic of San Marino, and Vatican City State are required to undergo a 14-day quarantine period and carry a self-declaration form with them in case they are stopped by law enforcement officers. Individuals put under mandatory self-isolation have to do so immediately upon entering the country. Additionally, on June 15, the Italian Ministry of Health launched Immuni, a voluntary Bluetooth-based contact tracing app that the government developed to contain possible future waves. The app uses a randomly generated code that is emitted continuously via Bluetooth, similar in function to Singapore's TraceTogether app. All data collected from this app are deleted by the Ministry of Health when no longer relevant, and no later than December 31, 2020. To protect the privacy rights of its citizens, the Italian Government issued a legal decree on April 30, 2020, establishing that all user data would be anonymized or pseudonymized, geolocation information collection would be strictly prohibited, and that data collected by the Ministry of Health would only be used for epidemiological purposes. This required the government to provide clear and transparent information about the data collected. Despite a difficult first wave, Italy has updated its border control and health policies in preparation for a potential second wave.\nSpain\nAmong the countries studied, Spain has had the highest total death rate per capita at 62.92 per 100,000 people (Table 1). Of note, there have been discrepancies in how Spain has reported their data. This is depicted in Figure 1 and Figure 7. During the period of May 24-25 and early June, the Spanish government addressed miscounted deaths, delays in reporting data, low testing capacity, and changes to its COVID-19 reporting criteria. Therefore, it is possible that the total number of deaths per capita may be higher given these factors. \nOn January 31, 2020, Spain confirmed its first COVID-19 case. At that time, Spain had also initiated the repatriation process of its citizens from Wuhan, China. All repatriated citizens were required to undergo an extensive health screening upon their return and were transferred by bus to Gomen Ulla Hospital for further evaluation and quarantine despite being asymptomatic. On February 25, stricter measures were enforced at airports and all ports of entry into the country, particularly for travelers coming from high-risk COVID-19 areas. Given the concerns about the growing number of cases, lockdown measures ensued. Comparable to Italy and the United States, Spain initially approached lockdowns regionally, beginning with the region of Haro on March 7 and four Catalan municipalities on March 12. However, by March 14, the government issued a royal decree declaring a state of alarm and a nationwide lockdown was enacted. Spanish citizens were required to limit their mobility unless deemed essential. Nonessential businesses shut down and face-to-face activities were suspended. Additionally, land border controls were re-established, which allowed only Spanish citizens, residents, cross-border workers, and those who could prove causes of force majeure via documentation to enter the country. To ensure compliance with lockdown measures and social distancing practices, areas were also heavily policed, with some areas using drones. Despite implementing these strict measures, it seems that the spread of the virus outpaced Spain's ability to contain it. As seen in Figure 7, Spain reached its peak number of deaths around April 3. Had Spain implemented these practices early on, the number of lives lost could have been significantly reduced.\nSimilarly to Italy and the United States, Spain resorted to traditional forms of contact tracing, which consist of local health authorities extensively interviewing infected individuals and their close contacts, and closely following up with them via phone calls during their 14-day quarantine period. In an effort to prevent the unnecessary use of emergency services and overwhelming hospital capacity, several autonomous communities released their own regionally based COVID-19 apps. These voluntary apps allow users to self-assess their symptoms and then provide users with the best health precautions to take. If a user meets certain health criteria, they may be contacted by local health authorities. Additionally, users have the option to provide their geolocation data, which is used to provide them with local resources, and for COVID-19 heat-mapping purposes. Geofencing is not performed. All personal and health data, protected by Spain's Protection of Personal Data law, are managed by the Ministry of Health and will only be kept for the remainder of the current health crisis. Currently, not much is known about the effectiveness of these apps. Therefore, it is difficult to assess whether or not these apps have contributed to Spain's downward trend in its number of deaths per capita.\nSince introducing its &quot;plan for transition toward a new normal&quot; on April 28, Spain has introduced new policies to ensure safe reopening. As of May 15, all incoming travelers are required to quarantine for 14 days in their place of residence. On May 19, public mask use was made mandatory. The government also introduced the Spain Travel Health program on July 1, which requires incoming travelers to fill out an online health declaration form 48 hours prior to their trip. Travelers must then present their personalized QR code upon their arrival. By implementing some practices similar to those of Taiwan, South Korea, and Singapore, these actions could positively contribute to Spain's response in future waves or pandemics.\nConclusion\nWhile most of the world's developed countries have been able to endure the first wave of the COVID-19 pandemic, the United States is still struggling to combat this virus effectively. As of September 6, 2020, the United States recorded a total of 188,538 deaths due to COVID-19. It is imperative that appropriate measures be taken in the case of future waves or pandemics. The low death rates of certain countries have suggested that the use of digital tools, along with strong adherence to social distancing measures, may be an associated measure in effectively flattening the curve early. From our research, we believe that there is a strong association between the use of these digital tools and low death rates in Taiwan, Singapore, and South Korea. We believe that this association is substantial enough to suggest the use of such digital tools in the United States. These methods have raised privacy concerns, but the countries that used them have legally established provisions and guidelines that protect both the privacy and health of their citizens. Provisions are established under Taiwan's Personal Data Protection Act, South Korea's COVID-19 Epidemiological Investigation Support System guidelines, and through the terms of use for SafeEntry and TraceTogether. Italy, in an attempt to avoid the great loss of life they endured in their first wave, has implemented a national data security law pertaining to contact tracing apps.\nGranted, there are countries, like New Zealand, who have low COVID-19 death rates without using digital tools. However, we believe that despite the low death rates achieved by such countries, this would be less plausible in the United States. Given the population size of the United States, the enormity of the data that would need to be evaluated to establish containment measures would likely benefit from using digital tools as Taiwan, South Korea, and Singapore have. Moreover, New Zealand has also opted to use digital tools to mitigate a second wave with its NZ COVID Tracer app. The United States recently introduced the use of digital tools in their vaccination efforts. On October 14, 2020, the CDC announced their plans to use V-SAFE, a smartphone-based system aimed at monitoring the side effects of the COVID-19 vaccine.\nAlthough some of the methods that countries like Taiwan, Singapore, and South Korea have employed may seem invasive to Americans, the loss of American lives has been substantial. Based on our findings, we propose that the United States adopts the following national policies to be temporarily enforced based on the findings of public health officials, with a supermajority of Congress and the President agreeing to declare a public health state of emergency. The circumstances needed to justify these contract tracing methods would be narrowly tailored to a compelling government interest where a great number of American lives would be at risk. They are as follows:\nNational command: During early signs of a possible epidemic or pandemic, a national task force should be formed with the head of the CDC and NIH at the helm. Mask use will be mandated nationally early. Strict mandatory guidelines on how to address the pandemic will be outlined and provided to states. Working with the private sector, this task force will oversee the increased production of critical medical supplies. National stockpiles should be established and maintained to last up to a year.\nContact tracing and quarantine: Individuals and close contacts are required to cooperate with public health officials. They will be required to download a contact tracing app on their phones that will be used to track and monitor their quarantine and symptoms. The app will use Bluetooth and GPS technology to ensure proper quarantine protocols are being followed. Data collected will only be used and accessed by the CDC and will be deleted after quarantine\n.\nThose without a smartphone will be monitored by local health officials via phone. Laws regarding the protection of digital data will be promulgated.\nBorder control: During the early stages of an epidemiological crisis, require all incoming travelers to download the contact tracing app and fill out a health questionnaire daily. If symptoms arise, they are required to immediately notify the local health official assigned to them and be tested. Information on who to notify will be provided to the traveler via the app.\nWe acknowledge the countries we studied differ in their cultures, political systems, and reporting criteria for COVID-19 deaths. Further research may need to be conducted to address these limitations.\nConflicts of Interest: None declared.\nAbbreviations\nCCTV\nclosed circuit television\nCDC\nCenter for Disease Control\nCECC\nTaiwan's Central Epidemic Command Center\nECDC\nEuropean Center for Disease Prevention and Control\nGPS\nglobal positioning system\nKCDC\nKorean Center of Disease Control\nLOA\nleave of absence\nLTPH\nSingaporean long-term pass holders\nMERS\nMiddle East respiratory syndrome\nSARS\nsevere acute respiratory syndrome\nSGAC\nSingapore-Arrival Card\nSHN\nStay-Home Notice\nWHO\nWorld Health Organization\nOutpacing the Virus: Digital Response to Containing the Spread of COVID-19 while Mitigating Privacy Risks\nBeing Prepared for a Pandemic\nFlattening the curve on COVID-19 - How Korea responded to a pandemic using ICT\nCoronavirus (COVID-19) Cases - Statistics and Research\nNews Highlights\nFrom SARS to COVID-19: the Singapore journey\nMandatory Stay-Home Notice for Work Pass Holders with Travel History to Mainland China\nICA: All Travelers Arriving In Singapore From 27 March 2020, 0900 Hours, Must Submit Health Declaration Via The SG Arrival Card E-Service\nNews Highlights\nTransforming Singapore Through Technology\nWhat is SafeEntry?\nGuidance For The Use Of Masks And Face Shields\nCoronavirus: DOD Response Timeline\nThinking Globally, Acting Locally : The U.S. Response to Covid-19\nCommunity Use Of Face Masks And COVID-19: Evidence From A Natural Experiment Of State Mandates In The US\nFact Sheet: DHS Notice of Arrival Restrictions on China, Iran and Certain Countries of Europe\nLegal Emergency Coronavirus Measures\nDomande Frequenti\nCoronavirus: sospesi tutti i collegamenti aerei tra Italia e Cina\nThe Ministry of Health and the CCAA agree to increase the sensitivity of the system for the early detection of the coronavirus\nRoyal Decree 463/2020, of March 14, declaring the state of alarm for the management of the health crisis situation caused by COVID-19\nSTOP COVID19 CAT\nAsistencia COVID-19\nCoronaMadrid\nSalut\nPolitica de privacidad\nTake your self-assessment of COVID-19\nAbout the Spain Travel Health program\nThe Government announces new measures to prevent the spread of the new coronavirus COVID-19\nNotas De Prensa\nBehind the mask. Journey through an epidemic: some observations of contrasting public health responses to SARS\nFAQs from Foreign Media\nCoronavirus disease-19 FAQs\nEntry Restrictions\nNews Highlights\n20 April 2020 - One Month On\nNews Highlights\nSeniors To Receive First Batch Of TraceTogether Tokens\nCDC releases resources to assist states to open\nCase Investigation and Contact Tracing: Part of a Multipronged Approach to Fight the COVID-19 Pandemic\nConsiderations for Travelers-Coronavirus in the US\nWhich US states require masks and which 2 don't at all?\nResearchers Continue Quest to Contain Spread of COVID-19: Digital technologies aim to accelerate contact tracing\nMost states won't use Apple and Google's COVID-19 contact-tracing\nMeasures for the Containment and Management of the Epidemiological Emergency\nFAQs on the Italian Government's #ImStayingHome Decree\nCoronavirus: De Micheli signs Decree on self-isolation for those returning to Italy\nItalian nationals returning to Italy and foreigners in Italy\nDECREE-LAW April 30, 2020, n. 28 Article 6\nSpain revises coronavirus death toll down by nearly 2,000\nThe real Covid-19 death toll in Spain: at least 44,868 victims\nCitizens from Wuhan initiate quarantine at the Gomez Ulla Hospital\nSpanish town faces police lockdown to contain coronavirus\nCataluna confina a 70.000 personas en cuatro municipios por el coronavirus\nA Comprehensive Review of the COVID-19 Pandemic and the Role of IoT, Drones, AI, Blockchain, and 5G in Managing its Impact\nDiagnostic Strategy, Surveillance and Control In The Phase of Transition of the Pandemic of COVID-19 Monitoring Indicators\nThe Council of Ministers approves the Transition Plan towards a New Normality\nToday the order that establishes a 14-day quarantine for all people from abroad comes into force\nOrder SND/422/2020, of May 19, regulating the conditions for the mandatory use of a mask during the health crisis situation caused by COVID-19\nSuccessful Elimination of Covid-19 Transmission in New Zealand\nEnsuring the Safety of COVID-19 Vaccines in the United States\n","References depth 1":[{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Outpacing the Virus: Digital Response to Containing the Spread of COVID-19 while Mitigating Privacy Risks","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Being Prepared for a Pandemic","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Flattening the curve on COVID-19 - How Korea responded to a pandemic using ICT","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Coronavirus (COVID-19) Cases - Statistics and Research","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"News Highlights","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"10.5694/mja2.50623","date":"1970-01-01","title":"From <styled-content style='fixed-case' toggle='no'>SARS</styled-content> to <styled-content style='fixed-case' toggle='no'>COVID</styled-content>?19: the Singapore journey","abstract":"","id":"PMC7300591","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"John Wiley and Sons Inc.","authors":[{"firstname":"Ray Junhao","surname":"Lin","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Tau Hong","surname":"Lee","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"David CB","surname":"Lye","email":"david_lye@ttsh.com.sg","contributions":"1"}],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Mandatory Stay-Home Notice for Work Pass Holders with Travel History to Mainland China","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"ICA: All Travelers Arriving In Singapore From 27 March 2020, 0900 Hours, Must Submit Health Declaration Via The SG Arrival Card E-Service","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"News Highlights","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Transforming Singapore Through Technology","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"What is SafeEntry?","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Guidance For The Use Of Masks And Face Shields","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Coronavirus: DOD Response Timeline","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"10.1056/nejmp2006740","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Thinking Globally, Acting Locally : The U.S. Response to Covid-19","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"10.1377/hlthaff.2020.00818","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Community Use Of Face Masks And COVID-19: Evidence From A Natural Experiment Of State Mandates In The US","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Fact Sheet: DHS Notice of Arrival Restrictions on China, Iran and Certain Countries of Europe","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Legal Emergency Coronavirus Measures","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Domande Frequenti","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Coronavirus: sospesi tutti i collegamenti aerei tra Italia e Cina","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The Ministry of Health and the CCAA agree to increase the sensitivity of the system for the early detection of the coronavirus","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Royal Decree 463/2020, of March 14, declaring the state of alarm for the management of the health crisis situation caused by COVID-19","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"STOP COVID19 CAT","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Asistencia COVID-19","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"CoronaMadrid","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Salut","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Early-life origins of life-cycle well-being: research and policy implications","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Living with the past: evolution, development, and patterns of disease","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Ben-Shlomo Y, Kuh D. A life course approach to chronic disease epidemiology: conceptual models, empirical challenges and interdisciplinary perspectives. Int. J. Epidemiol. England; 2002. p. 285-93.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Neuroscience, molecular biology, and the childhood roots of health disparities: building a new framework for health promotion and disease prevention","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Early childhood interventions: &quot;Proven results, future promise","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Aos S, Lieb R, Mayfield J, Miller M, Pennucci A. Benefits and Costs of Prevention and Early Intervention Programs for Youth | Office of Justice Programs [Internet]. Available from: https://www.ojp.gov/ncjrs/virtual-library/abstracts/benefits-and-costs-prevention-and-early-intervention-programs-youth.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Cannon JS, Kilburn MR, Karoly LA, Mattox T, Muchow AN, Buenaventura M. Investing Early: Taking Stock of Outcomes and Economic Returns from Early Childhood Programs. Rand Heal Q [Internet]. 2018;7:6. Available from: https://europepmc.org/articles/PMC6075808.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Karoly LA, Bigelow JH. The Economics of Investing in Universal Preschool Education in California. Econ Invest Univers Presch Educ Calif [Internet]. RAND Corporation; 2005 [cited 2021 Dec 9]; Available from: https://www.rand.org/pubs/monographs/MG349.html.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1146/annurev.clinpsy.3.022806.091411","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Cost-effective early childhood development programs from preschool to third grade","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1353/foc.2016.0011","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The economic returns to early Childhood Education","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Nores M, Barnett WS. Benefits of early childhood interventions across the world: (Under) Investing in the very young. Econ Educ Rev [Internet]. 2010;29:271-82. Available from: https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S027277570900106X.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1111/jep.12799","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Cost-effectiveness of the Family Nurse Partnership (FNP) programme in England: evidence from the building blocks trial","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Bell K, Corbacho B, Ronaldson S, Richardson G, Torgerson D, Robling M et al. The impact of pre and perinatal lifestyle factors on child long term health and social outcomes: a systematic review. Health Econ Rev [Internet]. 2018;8:2. Available from: 10.1186/s13561-018-0186-6.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/j.semperi.2021.151390","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Preterm birth lifetime costs in the United States in 2016: an update","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Edvardsson K, Garvare R, Ivarsson A, Eurenius E, Mogren I, Nystrom ME. Sustainable practice change: Professionals' experiences with a multisectoral child health promotion programme in Sweden. BMC Health Serv Res [Internet]. 2011;11:61. Available from: 10.1186/1472-6963-11-61.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Elisabeth Nystrom M, Hoog E, Garvare R, Weinehall L, Ivarsson A. Change and learning strategies in large scale change programs. J Organ Chang Manag [Internet]. Emerald Group Publishing Limited; 2013;26:1020-44. Available from: 10.1108/JOCM-08-2012-0132.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Haggstrom J, Sampaio F, Eurenius E, Pulkki-Brannstrom AM, Ivarsson A, Lindkvist M et al. Is the Salut Programme an effective and cost-effective universal health promotion intervention for parents and their children? A register-based retrospective observational study. BMJ Open [Internet]. 2017/09/25. 2017;7:e016732. Available from: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28939578.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Feldman I, Eurenius E, Haggstrom J, Sampaio F, Lindkvist M, Pulkki-Brannstrom A-M et al. Effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of the Salut Programme: A universal health promotion intervention for parents and children - Protocol of a register-based retrospective observational study. BMJ Open. 2016;6.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Swedish Association of Local Authorities and Regions (SALAR). [Sveriges kommuner och Regioner (SKR)]. Cost per patient database [Kostnad per patient, KPP] [Internet]. [cited 2021 Oct 11]. Available from: https://skr.se/ekonomijuridikstatistik/statistik/kostnadperpatientkpp.1076.html.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Statistics Sweden [Statistiska centralbyran]. Consumer Price Index (CPI) [Konsumentprisindex (KPI)] [Internet]. Available from: https://www.scb.se/hitta-statistik/statistik-efter-amne/priser-och-konsumtion/konsumentprisindex/konsumentprisindex-kpi/pong/tabell-och-diagram/konsumentprisindex-kpi/kpi-faststallda-tal-1980100/.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"CCEMG - EPPI-Centre. Cost Converter v.1.4: web-based tool for adjusting estimates of cost using IMF source dataset for PPP [Internet]. [cited 2021 Jun 3]. Available from: https://eppi.ioe.ac.uk/costconversion/default.aspx.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Abadie A, Imbens GW. Large Sample Properties of Matching Estimators for Average Treatment Effects. Econometrica [Internet]. 2006;74:235-67. Available from: https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/abs/10.1111/j.1468-0262.2006.00655.x.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Abadie A, Imbens GW. On the Failure of the Bootstrap for Matching Estimators. Econometrica [Internet]. 2008;76:1537-57. Available from: https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/abs/10.3982/ECTA6474.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Hartfiel N, Edwards R. Cost-consequence analysis of public health interventions. 2019. p. 233-47.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Henderson J, Carson C, Redshaw M. Impact of preterm birth on maternal well-being and women's perceptions of their baby: a population-based survey. BMJ Open [Internet]. 2016;6:e012676. Available from: https://bmjopen.bmj.com/content/6/10/e012676.abstract","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Gutbrod T, Wolke D, Soehne B, Ohrt B, Riegel K. Effects of gestation and birth weight on the growth and development of very low birthweight small for gestational age infants: a matched group comparison. Arch Dis Child - Fetal Neonatal Ed [Internet]. 2000;82:F208 LP-F214. Available from: http://fn.bmj.com/content/82/3/F208.abstract.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Rosholm M, Paul A, Bleses D, Hojen A, Dale S, Jensen P, ARE IMPACTS OF EARLY INTERVENTIONS IN THE SCANDINAVIAN WELFARE STATE CONSISTENT WITH A HECKMAN CURVE? A META-ANALYSIS. P,. J Econ Surv [Internet]. 2021;35:106-40. Available from: https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/abs/10.1111/joes.12400.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Beckmann K, Garmo H, Franck Lissbrant I, Stattin P. The Value of Real-World Data in Understanding Prostate Cancer Risk and Improving Clinical Care: Examples from Swedish Registries. Cancers (Basel). 2021;13.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Baba S, Wikstrom A-K, Stephansson O, Cnattingius S. Changes in snuff and smoking habits in Swedish pregnant women and risk for small for gestational age births. BJOG An Int J Obstet Gynaecol [Internet]. 2013;120:456-62. Available from: https://obgyn.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/abs/10.1111/1471-0528.12067.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Wikstrom A-K, Cnattingius S, Galanti MR, Kieler H, Stephansson O. Effect of Swedish snuff (snus) on preterm birth. BJOG An Int J Obstet Gynaecol [Internet]. 2010;117:1005-10. Available from: https://obgyn.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/abs/10.1111/j.1471-0528.2010.02575.x.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Nutbeam D. Evaluating Health Promotion:Progress, Problems and solutions. Health Promot Int [Internet]. 1998;13:27-44. Available from: 10.1093/heapro/13.1.27.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Politica de privacidad","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[{"doi":"10.1590/0103-11042020E410","date":"1970-01-01","title":"A contribuicao da atencao primaria a saude na rede SUS de enfrentamento a Covid-19","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1590/1981-7746-sol00310","date":"1970-01-01","title":"?Es la atencion primaria de salud integral parte de la respuesta a la pandemia de Covid-19 en Latinoamerica?","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Secretaria de Saude define planejamento com agentes comunitarios de saude","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1590/0103-11042018S108","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Complexidade e potencialidade do trabalho dos Agentes Comunitarios de Saude no Brasil contemporaneo","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1590/1413-81232021266.1.43952020","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The Family Health Strategy coverage in Brazil: what reveal the 2013 and 2019 National Health Surveys","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1590/S0102-30982010000100004","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Estimativas e projecoes populacionais para pequenos dominios: uma avaliacao da precisao para municipios do Rio de Janeiro em 2000 e 2007","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1590/1413-81232017221.16782015","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Cobertura de planos de saude na populacao brasileira, segundo a Pesquisa Nacional de Saude, 2013","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1590/S0104-12902015137475","date":"1970-01-01","title":"As multiplas fronteiras presentes no atendimento a saude do estrangeiro em Corumba, Brasil","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.36403/espacoaberto.2020.29948","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Saude na fronteira brasileira: politicas publicas e acesso a servicos","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Take your self-assessment of COVID-19","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"About the Spain Travel Health program","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The Government announces new measures to prevent the spread of the new coronavirus COVID-19","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Notas De Prensa","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"10.1136/jech.57.11.855","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Behind the mask. Journey through an epidemic: some observations of contrasting public health responses to SARS","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"FAQs from Foreign Media","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Coronavirus disease-19 FAQs","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Entry Restrictions","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"News Highlights","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"20 April 2020 - One Month On","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"News Highlights","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Seniors To Receive First Batch Of TraceTogether Tokens","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"CDC releases resources to assist states to open","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Case Investigation and Contact Tracing: Part of a Multipronged Approach to Fight the COVID-19 Pandemic","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Considerations for Travelers-Coronavirus in the US","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Which US states require masks and which 2 don't at all?","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"10.1093/biosci/biaa071","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Researchers Continue Quest to Contain Spread of COVID-19","abstract":"","id":"PMC7337627","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Oxford University Press","authors":[{"firstname":"John H","surname":"Tibbetts","email":"tibbettsjh@gmail.com","contributions":"1"}],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Most states won't use Apple and Google's COVID-19 contact-tracing","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Measures for the Containment and Management of the Epidemiological Emergency","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"FAQs on the Italian Government's #ImStayingHome Decree","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Coronavirus: De Micheli signs Decree on self-isolation for those returning to Italy","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Italian nationals returning to Italy and foreigners in Italy","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"DECREE-LAW April 30, 2020, n. 28 Article 6","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Spain revises coronavirus death toll down by nearly 2,000","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The real Covid-19 death toll in Spain: at least 44,868 victims","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Citizens from Wuhan initiate quarantine at the Gomez Ulla Hospital","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Spanish town faces police lockdown to contain coronavirus","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Cataluna confina a 70.000 personas en cuatro municipios por el coronavirus","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"10.1109/access.2020.2992341","date":"1970-01-01","title":"A Comprehensive Review of the COVID-19 Pandemic and the Role of IoT, Drones, AI, Blockchain, and 5G in Managing its Impact","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Diagnostic Strategy, Surveillance and Control In The Phase of Transition of the Pandemic of COVID-19 Monitoring Indicators","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The Council of Ministers approves the Transition Plan towards a New Normality","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Today the order that establishes a 14-day quarantine for all people from abroad comes into force","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Order SND/422/2020, of May 19, regulating the conditions for the mandatory use of a mask during the health crisis situation caused by COVID-19","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"10.1056/nejmc2025203","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Successful Elimination of Covid-19 Transmission in New Zealand","abstract":"","id":"PMC7449141","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Massachusetts Medical Society","authors":[{"firstname":"Michael G.","surname":"Baker","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Nick","surname":"Wilson","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Andrew","surname":"Anglemyer","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Andrew","surname":"Anglemyer","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Ensuring the Safety of COVID-19 Vaccines in the United States","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]}]},{"doi":"10.2196/19904","date":"2020-07-13","title":"Impact of National Containment Measures on Decelerating the Increase in Daily New Cases of COVID-19 in 54 Countries and 4 Epicenters of the Pandemic: Comparative Observational Study","abstract":"Background\nCoronavirus disease (COVID-19) is a worldwide epidemic, and various countries have responded with different containment measures to reduce disease transmission, including stay-at-home orders, curfews, and lockdowns.\n\n Comparative studies have not yet been conducted to investigate the impact of these containment measures; these studies are needed to facilitate public health policy-making across countries.\n\n\nObjective\nThe aim of this study was to describe and evaluate the impact of national containment measures and policies (stay-at-home orders, curfews, and lockdowns) on decelerating the increase in daily new cases of COVID-19 in 54 countries and 4 epicenters of the pandemic in different jurisdictions worldwide.\n\n\nMethods\nWe reviewed the effective dates of the national containment measures (stay-at-home order, curfew, or lockdown) of 54 countries and 4 epicenters of the COVID-19 pandemic (Wuhan, New York State, Lombardy, and Madrid), and we searched cumulative numbers of confirmed COVID-19 cases and daily new cases provided by health authorities.\n\n Data were drawn from an open, crowdsourced, daily-updated COVID-19 data set provided by Our World in Data.\n\n We examined the trends in the percent increase in daily new cases from 7 days before to 30 days after the dates on which containment measures went into effect by continent, World Bank income classification, type of containment measures, effective date of containment measures, and number of confirmed cases on the effective date of the containment measures.\n\n\nResults\nWe included 122,366 patients with confirmed COVID-19 infection from 54 countries and 24,071 patients from 4 epicenters on the effective dates on which stay-at-home orders, curfews, or lockdowns were implemented between January 23 and April 11, 2020. Stay-at-home, curfew, and lockdown measures commonly commenced in countries with approximately 30%, 20%, or 10% increases in daily new cases.\n\n All three measures were found to lower the percent increase in daily new cases to &lt;5 within one month.\n\n Among the countries studied, 20% had an average percent increase in daily new cases of 30-49 over the seven days prior to the commencement of containment measures; the percent increase in daily new cases in these countries was curbed to 10 and 5 a maximum of 15 days and 23 days after the implementation of containment measures, respectively.\n\n\nConclusions\nDifferent national containment measures were associated with a decrease in daily new cases of confirmed COVID-19 infection.\n\n Stay-at-home orders, curfews, and lockdowns curbed the percent increase in daily new cases to &lt;5 within a month.\n\n Resurgence in cases within one month was observed in some South American countries.\n\n\n","id":"PMC7377680","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"JMIR Publications","authors":[{"firstname":"Gunther","surname":"Eysenbach","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":" Guy","surname":"Fagherazzi","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":" Juan","surname":"Yang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":" Juan","surname":"Yang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":" Claire","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":" Cline","surname":"Mavrot","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":" Carlos K H","surname":"Wong","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":" Carlos K H","surname":"Wong","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":" Janet Y H","surname":"Wong","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":" Janet Y H","surname":"Wong","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":" Eric H M","surname":"Tang","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":" Eric H M","surname":"Tang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":" Chi Ho","surname":"Au","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":" Chi Ho","surname":"Au","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":" Kristy T K","surname":"Lau","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":" Kristy T K","surname":"Lau","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":" Abraham K C","surname":"Wai","email":"awai@hku.hk","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":" Abraham K C","surname":"Wai","email":"awai@hku.hk","contributions":"0"}],"Full Text":"Impact of National Containment Measures on Decelerating the Increase in Daily New Cases of COVID-19 in 54 Countries and 4 Epicenters of the Pandemic: Comparative Observational Study\nBackground\nCoronavirus disease (COVID-19) is a worldwide epidemic, and various countries have responded with different containment measures to reduce disease transmission, including stay-at-home orders, curfews, and lockdowns. Comparative studies have not yet been conducted to investigate the impact of these containment measures; these studies are needed to facilitate public health policy-making across countries.\nObjective\nThe aim of this study was to describe and evaluate the impact of national containment measures and policies (stay-at-home orders, curfews, and lockdowns) on decelerating the increase in daily new cases of COVID-19 in 54 countries and 4 epicenters of the pandemic in different jurisdictions worldwide.\nMethods\nWe reviewed the effective dates of the national containment measures (stay-at-home order, curfew, or lockdown) of 54 countries and 4 epicenters of the COVID-19 pandemic (Wuhan, New York State, Lombardy, and Madrid), and we searched cumulative numbers of confirmed COVID-19 cases and daily new cases provided by health authorities. Data were drawn from an open, crowdsourced, daily-updated COVID-19 data set provided by Our World in Data. We examined the trends in the percent increase in daily new cases from 7 days before to 30 days after the dates on which containment measures went into effect by continent, World Bank income classification, type of containment measures, effective date of containment measures, and number of confirmed cases on the effective date of the containment measures.\nResults\nWe included 122,366 patients with confirmed COVID-19 infection from 54 countries and 24,071 patients from 4 epicenters on the effective dates on which stay-at-home orders, curfews, or lockdowns were implemented between January 23 and April 11, 2020. Stay-at-home, curfew, and lockdown measures commonly commenced in countries with approximately 30%, 20%, or 10% increases in daily new cases. All three measures were found to lower the percent increase in daily new cases to &lt;5 within one month. Among the countries studied, 20% had an average percent increase in daily new cases of 30-49 over the seven days prior to the commencement of containment measures; the percent increase in daily new cases in these countries was curbed to 10 and 5 a maximum of 15 days and 23 days after the implementation of containment measures, respectively.\nConclusions\nDifferent national containment measures were associated with a decrease in daily new cases of confirmed COVID-19 infection. Stay-at-home orders, curfews, and lockdowns curbed the percent increase in daily new cases to &lt;5 within a month. Resurgence in cases within one month was observed in some South American countries.\nIntroduction\nThe coronavirus disease (COVID-19) epidemic is caused by severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2); it is the third coronavirus-associated epidemic to emerge from a species leap from wild animals to humans, after severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) in 2003 and Middle East respiratory syndrome (MERS) in 2012. Coronavirus infection causes acute respiratory illness that is usually self-limiting but can be severe in some cases. Coronaviruses primarily infect the upper respiratory and gastrointestinal tracts of birds and mammals. However, once a human is infected, they can transmit the coronavirus to other humans through respiratory droplets and aerosols from coughing and sneezing, like other respiratory pathogens. In Wuhan, China, it was estimated that the basic reproductive number for SARS-CoV-2 was 2.68 (95% CI 2.47-2.86) and its doubling time was 6.4 days (95% CI 5.8-7.1) in the early phase of the pandemic. Since January 2020, following the lockdown of Wuhan, increasing numbers of SARS-CoV-2-infected cases have been reported outside the city. The COVID-19 pandemic began with small chains of transmission in China and nearby cities, which then became large chains of extensive spread in countries worldwide. As of July 2, 2020, over 10 million confirmed cases and more than 510,000 deaths have been recorded globally. National responses of containment measures, such as stay-at-home orders, curfews, and lockdowns, have varied across countries with different characteristics. To our knowledge, there is no comparative study investigating the impact of these containment measures on COVID-19 transmission in countries with respect to geographical location, income status, containment measures imposed, and early and late responses to the COVID-19 pandemic.\nFrom the perspective of public health, principles of controlling contagious disease transmission focus mainly on early detection via testing and contact tracing, in addition to prevention of transmission by containment measures such as stay-at-home orders, curfews, lockdowns, quarantine of exposed individuals, and travel or trade restrictions. Additionally, behavioral interventions such as personal protective measures (such as hand hygiene and respiratory etiquette) and social or physical distancing measures (such as isolation of sick individuals, school measures and closures, workplace measures and closures, and avoiding crowding) should be advocated at the community level to facilitate the flattening of the epidemic curve.\nQuarantine has been used as an effective tool to control communicable disease outbreaks throughout history. The quarantine period provides ample time for the incubation period to complete; therefore, asymptomatic cases will become symptomatic and can therefore be identified. Quarantine is most successful in settings where there is prompt detection of new cases, where contacts can be listed and traced within a short time frame, followed by a prompt issuance of quarantine with voluntary compliance. This may not be applicable to the case of COVID-19 infection because the science and epidemiology of the disease are still largely unknown. At the time of preparation of this paper, in a rapid review assessing the effects of quarantine (alone or in combination with other measures) of individuals who had contact with confirmed cases of COVID-19 infection, who travelled from countries with a declared outbreak, or who lived in regions with high transmission of the disease, it was concluded that insufficient evidence was available.\nInitial analysis of data from China collected in February 2020 suggested that the epidemic did not expand exponentially. Public response to the epidemic in addition to containment policies was found to be effective despite the initial increase in the number of confirmed cases. The initial transmission rate (R0) was reduced from 2.6 to 0.62 (95% CI 0.37-0.89) due to the stay-at-home order in the United Kingdom. Similar changes in effective transmission rate (Rt) were observed in the United States and many European countries after population-level containment interventions were implemented. However, worldwide evidence to guide policy makers on effective control of the pandemic is still lacking.\nNonpharmaceutical public health measures at the individual level (physical distancing, use of face masks, and wearing of eye protection to reduce person-to-person transmission) have been studied by the COVID-19 Systematic Urgent Review Group Effort (SURGE). However, the effectiveness of measures implemented at the national level is a knowledge gap that should be filled. In this study, we aimed to describe and evaluate the impact of national containment measures and policies (stay-at-home orders, curfews, and lockdowns) on decelerating the increase in daily new cases of COVID-19 infection in 54 countries and 4 epicenters of the pandemic in different jurisdictions worldwide.\nMethods\nData Source\nWe used an open, crowdsourced, daily-updated COVID-19 data set provided by Our World in Data. This public domain repository provides numbers of cumulative confirmed cases, confirmed cases per 1 million people, confirmed daily new cases, cumulative deaths, and daily deaths for each country associated with the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control and the total number of tests for COVID-19 performed per 1000 people as reported by the health authority of each country. Because the most common test for COVID-19 is the polymerase chain reaction (PCR) test, our data source tracked the number of tests for COVID-19 in terms of the number of PCR tests performed or the number of individuals who were tested for COVID-19 reported by the health authority of each country. Cumulative confirmed cases and daily new cases in four epicenters (Wuhan, the Lombardy region of Italy, New York State, and Madrid) were obtained from the websites of national health authorities. Commencement dates of countrywide containment measures were gathered from the national health ministries and health authorities by authors CW and EHMT and were cross-checked by the last author (AW). Characteristics including the continent, income level classified by the World Bank, types of containment measures (stay-at-home order, curfew, or lockdown), effective dates of containment measures, and numbers of confirmed cases on the effective dates of containment measures were retrieved for each country and epicenter. All crowdsourced data were available up to June 20, 2020.\nRegarding the three containment measures under investigation, a stay-at-home order was defined as limited outdoor movement except essential activity, curfew was defined as a stay-at-home order during specific time periods, and lockdown was defined as restriction of population mobility within a specific region or country. Acknowledging that variations in the adoption of containment measures may exist across regions or countries, the main difference between a stay-at-home order and a lockdown was denoted as the restriction of people moving in or out of a region being imposed with the latter but not the former. Accordingly, the containment measure introduced in the United States would be classified as a stay-at-home order.\nEthics Approval\nThis study used open-sourced, secondary dataset, and was exempted from ethics review of Institution Review Board.\nOutcome Definitions\nThe primary outcome of this study was the percent increase in daily new cases from 7 days prior (day -7) to 30 days after (day +30) the commencement of measures in countries and epicenters. This specific timeframe between day -7 and day +30 ensured that complete daily new case data were obtained for all included countries and epicenters. The percent increase in daily new cases on day t was defined as the daily new cases on day t divided by the cumulative confirmed cases on day t - 1, where t was between -7 and 30. When estimating the percent increase in daily new cases by characteristic group, estimates were calculated as the total daily new cases in the locations within the group on day t divided by the total cumulative confirmed cases of the locations within the group on day t - 1. The denominator and numerator in the fraction were two summations; the summations were taken over the countries with nonmissing numbers of cases on days t and t - 1, respectively. This percent increase can be represented by the weighted sum of the percent increase of the component locations, where the weight is calculated based on the cumulative cases in the country on day t - 1:\nAverage increase in daily new cases from day-7 to day-1 was calculated by method of geometric mean.\nData Analysis\nWe used line graphs to represent the trends in the percent increase in daily new cases for each type of containment measure and by the measure start date, continent of the country or epicenter, income level, and average percent increase in daily new cases before the start of containment measures. The formula proposed by Waller et al was used to estimate the 95% CI for the weighted proportion. The 95% CI for the percent increase of a location was estimated by the method of the binomial proportion confidence interval, while that for a group was estimated by the method of the weighted binomial proportion confidence interval. The calculation of the percent increase in daily new cases at time t was excluded in a particular group and country if the daily new cases data were missing at time t - 1 and time t. Scatter plots were used to visualize the percent increase in daily new cases at day +7, day +14, day +21 and day +30 for each country or epicenter by the average percent increase in cases before the commencement of the containment measures and after the start dates of the containment measures. The relationship between the number of diagnosed cases and the number of tests performed for each location was also assessed using line graphs.\nAll statistical analyses and figure generations were performed using Stata version 16.0 (StataCorp LLC).\nResults\nThis study included 122,366 patients with confirmed COVID-19 infection from 54 countries and 24,071 patients from 4 epicenters on the days when stay-at-home orders, curfews, or lockdowns were implemented between January 23 and April 11, 2020. The containment measures at the national level are summarized in Multimedia Appendix 1. Of the 54 countries, 31 (57%) adopted lockdowns, 17 (32%) adopted curfews, and 6 (11%) adopted stay-at-home orders. All countries initiated their containment policies after March 9, 2020, except for China (January 23, 2020).\nRegarding the type of containment measure, countries adopting stay-at-home orders, curfew, and lockdown demonstrated a decreasing trend in percent increase in daily new cases of COVID-19 infection after the commencement of the measures (Figure 1). In countries with stay-at-home orders, curfews, or lockdowns, the percent increase was observed to be curbed to &lt;5 within one month. The percent increase in daily new cases decreased from 26.9 (95% CI 25.7%-28.0%) at baseline to 20.3 (95% CI 19.8%-20.7%) at day +7, 12.8 (95% CI 12.6%-13.0%) at day +14, 7.29 (95% CI 7.17%-7.41%) at day +21, and 4.03 (95% CI 3.96%-4.10%) at day +30 for countries introducing stay-at-home orders. For countries introducing curfew, the percent increase in daily new cases decreased from 11.4 (95% CI 10.9-11.9) at baseline to 5.93 (95% CI 5.61-6.26) at day +7, 3.73 (95% CI 3.47-3.98) at day +14, 2.60 (95% CI 2.38-2.81) at day +21, and 1.89 (95% CI 1.71-2.07) at day +30. Meanwhile, the percent increase in daily new cases decreased from 20.6 (95% CI 19.2-22.1) at baseline to 16.6 (95% CI 15.9-17.4) at day +7, 10.8 (95% CI 10.4-11.2) at day +14, 8.32 (95% CI 8.06-8.57) at day +21 and 2.88 (95% CI 2.73-3.02) at day +30 for countries introducing lockdown. For the start date of the intervention (Figure 2), a persistent drop in the percent increase in daily new cases was also observed at the initial stage of the containment measures, except in China.\nPercent increase in daily new cases vs days since containment measure by type of containment measure.\nPercent increases in daily new cases vs days since implementation of containment measures by the start date of the containment measure.\nWithin seven days of commencement of the containment measures, a decreasing trend in the percent increase in daily new cases was observed across continents (Figure 3). The introduction of a new COVID-19 case classification in China at day +21 led to a spike in the percent increase in daily new cases in Asia. Resurgence in COVID-19 cases in South American countries was observed with a spike in percent increase in daily new cases at day +25, more than two weeks after the implementation of containment measures. By income level (Figure 4), a decreasing trend in the percent increase in daily new cases was observed for high-income countries since the initiation of containment measures.\nPercent increases in daily new cases against days since implementation of containment measures by continent.\nPercent increases in daily new cases vs days since implementation of containment measures by income level.\nAmong countries with an average percent increase in daily new cases above 10 over seven days prior to the commencement of containment measures, a decreasing trend in percent increase in daily new cases was identified following the implementation of a stay-at-home order, curfew, or lockdown (Figure 5). mong the countries studied, 20% (n=11) had an average increase in daily new cases of 30-49% a week before intervention, while 13% (n=7) had an average increase in daily new cases of &gt;=50%. For countries with an average percent increase in daily new cases between 30-49%, 15 and 23 days were required to reduce the percent increase in daily new cases to 10 and 5, respectively. The distributions of percent increases of daily new cases at day +7, day +14, day +21 and day +30 by average percent increase before the commencement of containment measures in countries and epicenters are shown in Figure 6. A majority of countries (n=45, 83%) experienced experienced a lower percent increase in daily new cases at day +7 than their respective average percent increases before the commencement of measures, whereas only 2 countries had a higher percent increase in daily new cases at both day +14 and day +21 than that prior to containment intervention. The percent increases in daily new cases at day +7, day +14, day +21, and day +30 for each type of containment measure were similar regardless of the start date of the stay-at-home order, curfew, or lockdown (Figure 7).\nPercent increases in daily new cases vs days since implementation of containment measures by average percent increase in daily new cases before the containment measures.\nPercent increases in daily new cases at day +7 (A), day +14 (B), day +21 (C) and day +30 (D) against average percent increase in daily new cases before intervention by country and epicenter.\nPercent increases in daily new cases at day +7 (A), day +14 (B), day +21 (C), and day +30 (D) vs start date of containment measure by type of containment measure.\nWith respect to the type of containment measures, Figure 8 illustrates the relationship between the number of COVID-19 tests performed per 1000 people and the number of confirmed cases per 1 million people as reported by the health authority of each country. Countries that initiated lockdown demonstrated flattened curves, implying a reduction of the number of new confirmed cases per 1 million people, while these countries greatly expanded their scope of PCR testing. Countries adopting stay-at-home orders or curfews demonstrated a linear relationship between the number of COVID-19 tests performed and the number of confirmed cases. Increasing the number of COVID-19 tests performed had adjunctive effects on curbing the increase in daily new cases among locked-down countries.\nTotal confirmed cases per 1 million people vs total tests for COVID-19 per thousand people in 54 countries by type of containment measure. COVID-19: coronavirus disease.\nDiscussion\nPrincipal Findings\nOur findings suggest that different national containment measures, namely stay-at-home orders, curfews, and lockdowns, are associated with a decrease in the percent increase in daily new cases of confirmed COVID-19 infection. This is consistent with our previous understanding that the virus can be transmitted through respiratory droplets; hence, reducing social contact and population movement may help reduce the spread of this infectious disease. Among countries adopting a lockdown approach, increasing the number of COVID-19 tests may have had adjunctive effects on curbing the increase of confirmed daily new cases. The effects of stay-at-home orders, as described in this study, were contributed by the United States, the United Kingdom, Belgium, Germany, Ireland, and Japan. However, the effects of these orders were likely underestimated on a global scale, given that residents in many regions and countries (such as South Korea, Vietnam, Taiwan, and Hong Kong) were strongly advised to stay home rather than being ordered to do so, which also appears to have been effective in reducing disease transmission. Lockdown serves to prevent movement of infected individuals between regions. Therefore, lockdown was implemented in epicenters as an altruistic measure to contain the epidemic. While lockdown can cause severe disruption of international interactions, especially in this globalized era, further research is warranted to investigate whether entry screening and quarantine would achieve similar outcomes to those of lockdown. It is our view that stay-at-home orders are adopted to minimize community transmission, and lockdowns (or border restrictions) aim to reduce the number of imported cases. Curfew, however, only limits physical contact among individuals during specific time periods; this may lead to a less observable effect, if any.\nIn the United States, the most prominent country in North America, there was no single effective date of a stay-at-home order at the country level, as containment measures and government responses to the COVID-19 pandemic varied from state to state (ranging from March 19 to April 11). California was the earliest state to enact a stay-at-home order, on March 19, 2020; this was assumed to be the effective date of national containment measures for the United States in this study. Most states in the United States subsequently imposed stay-at-home orders, leading to a time lag between the effective date and actual disease control. It can be speculated that the delay in commencing these containment measures across the country contributed to the spike in percent increase in daily new cases with stay-at-home orders for the first few days immediately following the first effective date of implementation, as the United States accounted for almost half the percent increase in daily new cases during the peak observed.\nA persistently low percent increase in daily new cases was observed in Asia throughout the study period. An upsurge of the number of COVID-19 cases alerted the health authorities in Asian countries and their residents during the early phase of the pandemic. With reference to the lessons learned during the SARS outbreak in 2003, Asian communities adopted various nonpharmaceutical measures to minimize disease transmission even before the announcement of health policies by local governments. This is evident in a report suggesting that nonpharmaceutical measures (such as hand hygiene, use of face masks, respiratory etiquette, and social distancing) have been incorporated into the local culture of Asian regions. Countries in South America, however, showed signs of potential resurgence or a second wave of COVID-19 cases at the end of the study period. It is very concerning that containment measures did not appear to be effective in flattening the epidemic curve for individual countries in the region or that the health literacy of the public regarding COVID-19 infection should be improved. These concerns appear to be valid in light of the several subsequent spikes of percent increase in daily new cases identified across several South American countries (such as Argentina, Colombia, and Peru) following the lifting of containment measures before the disease was brought under control.\nIn addition to substantially lowering the percent increase in daily new cases in countries and regions with severe surges (&gt;=100%), the investigated containment measures could also help less prevalent areas (&lt;10%) to maintain a stable low percent increase in daily new cases. Accordingly, these interventions can be initiated at an early stage to flatten the curve and protect local health services from overwhelming demand. In view of the considerable economic cost associated with restriction of population movement, early public health interventions may also help alleviate the impact of prolonged recession and massive disruption of economic activities posed by mounting crises of newly confirmed cases and fatalities.\nIn this study, the relationships between the number of COVID-19 tests performed per 1000 people and the number of confirmed cases per 1 million people were examined by country and type of containment measures. These relationships were more obvious when the number of confirmed cases per million people was relatively small (around 1000 confirmed cases per 1 million people), which indicates the importance of leadership and coordination by local governments to make rapid expansion of PCR testing feasible and achievable in areas affected by the COVID-19 pandemic. Once the number of confirmed patients exceeded 1000, the effect of the same testing-to-population ratio almost disappeared; this may have occurred because health care facilities were overwhelmed by symptomatic patients, leaving no capacity to contact potential cases and conduct tests to identify an even larger number of carriers. Additionally, a country may fail to expand its testing capacity if the availability of testing agents becomes a rate-determining factor. Meanwhile, adoption of curfews and stay-at-home orders in countries did not appear to control the rise of new confirmed cases; hence, it can be postulated that testing must be coupled with other nonpharmaceutical public health control measures, such as quarantine and isolation, to exert effects on disease control.\nThe COVID-19 pandemic revealed how wealth inequity is associated with differential outcomes among countries. In our study, it was observed that high-income countries achieved a greater reduction in percent increase in daily new cases following the implementation of a stay-at-home order, curfew, or lockdown. This decline was more gradual among low-income and lower-middle-income countries, potentially because the crowded living conditions in these countries pose inherent risk of disease transmission. Moreover, other public health measures such as quarantine of exposed individuals may not be as effective in these countries because low-income employees who rely on their wages to meet financial obligations may avoid COVID-19 testing and subsequent forced quarantine. Therefore, development of a comprehensive public health intervention should be part of the strategic plan to manage the outbreak of infectious diseases alongside the promotion of health literacy of individuals, particularly in low-income countries and among people of lower social classes.\nLimitations\nThe current study has several limitations. First, in an attempt to control the disease outbreak, many governments implemented multiple public health interventions simultaneously or within a short timeframe; thus, individual strategies could not be evaluated independently. Second, the effects of different containment measures on disease transmission can vary depending on the patterns of social contact at home, schools, and workplaces, which would likely be influenced by local cultures and the enforcement of public regulations. Third, the observational design of this study precluded causal inference. However, clinical trials are neither feasible nor ethical during the current public health emergency, and compelling evidence comparing the experience of one outbreak area with another in which different policies were adopted is still lacking.\nDuring the pandemic, crowdsourced data collection has played an increasingly important role in providing timely and accurate data for disease surveillance. A number of local crowdsourcing platforms, such as Ushahidi, have been working together to deliver real-time reports to the public to raise public awareness and facilitate the development of local contingency measures. This collaboration represents a potential advancement in the publication of timely epidemiological analyses and reports; however, the accuracy, ethics, and confidentiality of research data should not be undermined.\nConclusion\nNational containment measures are essential to controlling the COVID-19 pandemic. In this study using crowdsourced data, countries that implemented stay-at-home orders, curfews, and lockdowns managed to curb the percent increase in daily new cases within a month; however, a resurgence in cases was observed in several South American countries two weeks after the commencement of containment measures. While no vaccine or effective treatment is yet available, the findings of our study can shed light on the impact of different containment measures and the priority of their implementation during this pandemic.\nAuthors' Contributions: CW, JW, and AW contributed equally to all aspects of the study design and conduction, data interpretation, and writing of the manuscript. CW, ET, CHA, and KL contributed to the data extraction, analysis, and interpretation. AW contributed to the data validation. All authors approved the final version for submission.\nConflicts of Interest: None declared.\nAppendix\nAbbreviations\nCOVID-19\ncoronavirus disease\nMERS\nMiddle East respiratory syndrome\nPCR\npolymerase chain reaction\nR0\ninitial transmission rate\nRt\neffective transmission rate\nSARS\nsevere acute respiratory syndrome\nSARS-CoV-2\nsevere acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2\nSURGE\nSystematic Urgent Review Group Effort\nThe Middle East Respiratory Syndrome (MERS)\nSevere Acute Respiratory Syndrome: Historical, Epidemiologic, and Clinical Features\nThe SARS, MERS and novel coronavirus (COVID-19) epidemics, the newest and biggest global health threats: what lessons have we learned?\nSystematic Comparison of Two Animal-to-Human Transmitted Human Coronaviruses: SARS-CoV-2 and SARS-CoV\nNowcasting and forecasting the potential domestic and international spread of the 2019-nCoV outbreak originating in Wuhan, China: a modelling study\nEvolving epidemiology and transmission dynamics of coronavirus disease 2019 outside Hubei province, China: a descriptive and modelling study\nCOVID-19 Dashboard by the Center for Systems Science and Engineering (CSSE) at Johns Hopkins University &amp; Medicine\nCountry &amp; Technical Guidance - Coronavirus disease (COVID-19)\nUpdated WHO recommendations for international traffic in relation to COVID-19 outbreak\nHow will country-based mitigation measures influence the course of the COVID-19 epidemic?\nIsolation, quarantine, social distancing and community containment: pivotal role for old-style public health measures in the novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV) outbreak\nQuarantine alone or in combination with other public health measures to control COVID-19: A rapid Cochrane review\nEffective containment explains subexponential growth in recent confirmed COVID-19 cases in China\nQuantifying the impact of physical distance measures on the transmission of COVID-19 in the UK\nEstimating the effects of non-pharmaceutical interventions on COVID-19 in Europe\nPhysical distancing, face masks, and eye protection to prevent person-to-person transmission of SARS-CoV-2 and COVID-19: a systematic review and meta-analysis\nCoronavirus Source Data\nWorld Bank Country and Lending Groups\nConfidence intervals for weighted proportions\nTransmission potential and severity of COVID-19 in South Korea\nContact Tracing Assessment of COVID-19 Transmission Dynamics in Taiwan and Risk at Different Exposure Periods Before and After Symptom Onset\nTransmission dynamics, serial interval and epidemiology of COVID-19 diseases in Hong Kong under different control measures\nImpact assessment of non-pharmaceutical interventions against coronavirus disease 2019 and influenza in Hong Kong: an observational study\nCoronavirus: Why some countries wear face masks and others don't\nAssociation of Public Health Interventions With the Epidemiology of the COVID-19 Outbreak in Wuhan, China\nEarly epidemiological analysis of the coronavirus disease 2019 outbreak based on crowdsourced data: a population-level observational study\nComing Together to Improve Data Collection in Uncertain Times\nCrowdsourcing data to mitigate epidemics\n","References depth 1":[{"doi":"10.1016/j.idc.2019.08.001","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The Middle East Respiratory Syndrome (MERS)","abstract":"The Middle East respiratory syndrome (MERS) is a novel lethal zoonotic disease of humans caused by the MERS coronavirus (MERS-CoV).\n Although MERS is endemic to the Middle East, travelers have exported MERS-CoV on return to their home countries.\n Clinical manifestations range from mild to severe acute respiratory disease and death.\n The elderly, immunocompromised, and those with chronic comorbid liver, lung, and hepatic conditions have a high mortality rate.\n There is no specific treatment.\n Person-to-person spread causes hospital and household outbreaks, and thus improved compliance with internationally recommended infection control protocols and rapid implementation of infection control measures are required.\n","id":"PMC7127753","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Elsevier Inc.","authors":[{"firstname":"Esam I.","surname":"Azhar","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"David S.C.","surname":"Hui","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ziad A.","surname":"Memish","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Christian","surname":"Drosten","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Alimuddin","surname":"Zumla","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/j.idc.2019.07.001","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome","abstract":"Severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus (SARS-CoV), emerged from China and rapidly spread worldwide.\n Over 8098 people fell ill and 774 died before the epidemic ended in July 2003. Bats are likely an important reservoir for SARS-CoV.\n SARS-like CoVs have been detected in horseshoe bats and civet cats.\n The main mode of transmission of SARS-CoV is through inhalation of respiratory droplets.\n Faeco-oral transmission has been recorded.\n Strict infection control procedures with respiratory and contact precautions are essential.\n Fever and respiratory symptoms predominate, and diarrhea is common.\n Treatment involves supportive care.\n There are no specific antiviral treatments or vaccines available.\n","id":"PMC7127569","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Elsevier Inc.","authors":[{"firstname":"David S.C.","surname":"Hui","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Alimuddin","surname":"Zumla","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"10.1093/ije/dyaa033","date":"2020-02-12","title":"The SARS, MERS and novel coronavirus (COVID-19) epidemics, the newest and biggest global health threats: what lessons have we learned?","abstract":"Objectives\nTo provide an overview of the three major deadly coronaviruses and identify areas for improvement of future preparedness plans, as well as provide a critical assessment of the risk factors and actionable items for stopping their spread, utilizing lessons learned from the first two deadly coronavirus outbreaks, as well as initial reports from the current novel coronavirus (COVID-19) epidemic in Wuhan, China.\n\n\nMethods\nUtilizing the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC, USA) website, and a comprehensive review of PubMed literature, we obtained information regarding clinical signs and symptoms, treatment and diagnosis, transmission methods, protection methods and risk factors for Middle East Respiratory Syndrome (MERS), Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS) and COVID-19. Comparisons between the viruses were made.\n\n\nResults\nInadequate risk assessment regarding the urgency of the situation, and limited reporting on the virus within China has, in part, led to the rapid spread of COVID-19 throughout mainland China and into proximal and distant countries.\n\n Compared with SARS and MERS, COVID-19 has spread more rapidly, due in part to increased globalization and the focus of the epidemic.\n\n Wuhan, China is a large hub connecting the North, South, East and West of China via railways and a major international airport.\n\n The availability of connecting flights, the timing of the outbreak during the Chinese (Lunar) New Year, and the massive rail transit hub located in Wuhan has enabled the virus to perforate throughout China, and eventually, globally.\n\n\nConclusions\nWe conclude that we did not learn from the two prior epidemics of coronavirus and were ill-prepared to deal with the challenges the COVID-19 epidemic has posed.\n\n Future research should attempt to address the uses and implications of internet of things (IoT) technologies for mapping the spread of infection.\n\n\n","id":"PMC7197734","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Oxford University Press","authors":[{"firstname":"Noah C","surname":"Peeri","email":"noah.peeri@my.unthsc.edu","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Nistha","surname":"Shrestha","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Nistha","surname":"Shrestha","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Md Siddikur","surname":"Rahman","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Rafdzah","surname":"Zaki","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Zhengqi","surname":"Tan","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Saana","surname":"Bibi","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Mahdi","surname":"Baghbanzadeh","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Nasrin","surname":"Aghamohammadi","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Wenyi","surname":"Zhang","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ubydul","surname":"Haque","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}],"References depth 2":[{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"A novel coronavirus from patients with pneumonia in China, 2019","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Clinical features of patients infected with 2019 novel coronavirus in Wuhan, China","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Responding to global infectious disease outbreaks: lessons from SARS on the role of risk perception, communication and management","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Epidemiology, transmission dynamics and control of SARS: the 2002-2003 epidemic","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"History of chickenpox in glioma risk: a report from the glioma international case-control study (GICC)","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"MERS coronavirus: diagnostics, epidemiology and transmission","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"MERS coronavirus outbreak: implications for emerging viral infections","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus (MERS-CoV) outbreak in South Korea, 2015: epidemiology, characteristics and public health implications","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Middle East Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus (MERS-CoV) infection: epidemiology, pathogenesis and clinical characteristics","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Epidemiological, demographic, and clinical characteristics of 47 cases of Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus disease from Saudi Arabia: a descriptive study","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Treatment of Middle East Respiratory Syndrome with a combination of lopinavir-ritonavir and interferon-beta1b (MIRACLE trial): study protocol for a randomized controlled trial","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Broad-spectrum antiviral GS-5734 inhibits both epidemic and zoonotic coronaviruses","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Comparative therapeutic efficacy of remdesivir and combination lopinavir, ritonavir, and interferon beta against MERS-CoV","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Helicobacter pylori multiplex serology","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Role of lopinavir/ritonavir in the treatment of SARS: initial virological and clinical findings","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"SARS: epidemiology","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"SARS and MERS: recent insights into emerging coronaviruses","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Risks of death and severe disease in patients with Middle East Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus, 2012-2015","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Estimating the risk of Middle East Respiratory Syndrome (MERS) death during the course of the outbreak in the Republic of Korea, 2015","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The epidemiology of severe acute respiratory syndrome in the 2003 Hong Kong epidemic: an analysis of all 1755 patients","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Transmission of 2019-nCoV Infection from an asymptomatic contact in Germany","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Coronavirus infections-more than just the common cold","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Healthcare-associated infections: the hallmark of Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus with review of the literature","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"MERS transmission and risk factors: a systematic review","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS)-lessons for future pandemics","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Public Health Network Structure and Collaboration Effectiveness during the 2015 MERS outbreak in South Korea: an institutional collective action framework","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Leung Gm Nowcasting and forecasting the potential domestic and international spread of the 2019-nCoV outbreak originating in Wuhan, China: a modelling study","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"CDC. CDC Advises Travelers to Avoid All Nonessential Travel to China. https://www.cdc.gov/media/releases/2020/s0128-travelers-avoid-china.html (2 April 2020, date last accessed).","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]}]},{"doi":"10.3390/v12020244","date":"2020-02-20","title":"Systematic Comparison of Two Animal-to-Human Transmitted Human Coronaviruses: SARS-CoV-2 and SARS-CoV","abstract":"After the outbreak of the severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) in the world in 2003, human coronaviruses (HCoVs) have been reported as pathogens that cause severe symptoms in respiratory tract infections.\n Recently, a new emerged HCoV isolated from the respiratory epithelium of unexplained pneumonia patients in the Wuhan seafood market caused a major disease outbreak and has been named the severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2).\n This virus causes acute lung symptoms, leading to a condition that has been named as coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19).\n The emergence of SARS-CoV-2 and of SARS-CoV caused widespread fear and concern and has threatened global health security.\n There are some similarities and differences in the epidemiology and clinical features between these two viruses and diseases that are caused by these viruses.\n The goal of this work is to systematically review and compare between SARS-CoV and SARS-CoV-2 in the context of their virus incubation, originations, diagnosis and treatment methods, genomic and proteomic sequences, and pathogenic mechanisms.\n","id":"PMC7077191","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"MDPI","authors":[{"firstname":"Jiabao","surname":"Xu","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Shizhe","surname":"Zhao","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Tieshan","surname":"Teng","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Abualgasim Elgaili","surname":"Abdalla","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Abualgasim Elgaili","surname":"Abdalla","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Wan","surname":"Zhu","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Longxiang","surname":"Xie","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Yunlong","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Yunlong","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xiangqian","surname":"Guo","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}],"References depth 2":[{"doi":"10.3201/eid1212.060401","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Review of Bats and SARS","abstract":"TOC Summary: The discovery of SARS-like coronaviruses in horseshoe bats highlights the possibility of future outbreaks caused by different coronaviruses of bat origin.\n","id":"PMC3291347","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Centers for Disease Control and Prevention","authors":[{"firstname":"Lin-Fa","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zhengli","surname":"Shi","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Shuyi","surname":"Zhang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hume","surname":"Field","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Peter","surname":"Daszak","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Bryan T.","surname":"Eaton","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1038/nature12711","date":"2013-09-18","title":"Isolation and characterization of a bat SARS-like coronavirus that uses the ACE2 receptor","abstract":"Supplementary information\nThe online version of this article (doi:10.1038/nature12711) contains supplementary material, which is available to authorized users.\n\n\n","id":"PMC5389864","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Nature Publishing Group UK","authors":[{"firstname":"Xing-Yi","surname":"Ge","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jia-Lu","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xing-Lou","surname":"Yang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Aleksei A.","surname":"Chmura","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Guangjian","surname":"Zhu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jonathan H.","surname":"Epstein","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jonna K.","surname":"Mazet","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ben","surname":"Hu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Wei","surname":"Zhang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Cheng","surname":"Peng","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yu-Ji","surname":"Zhang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Chu-Ming","surname":"Luo","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Bing","surname":"Tan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ning","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yan","surname":"Zhu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Gary","surname":"Crameri","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Shu-Yi","surname":"Zhang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Lin-Fa","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Peter","surname":"Daszak","email":"daszak@ecohealthalliance.org","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zheng-Li","surname":"Shi","email":"zlshi@wh.iov.cn","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1007/s12250-016-3726-4","date":"2016-01-25","title":"Molecular mechanisms of coronavirus RNA capping and methylation","abstract":"The 5?-cap structures of eukaryotic mRNAs are important for RNA stability, pre-mRNA splicing, mRNA export, and protein translation.\n Many viruses have evolved mechanisms for generating their own cap structures with methylation at the N7 position of the capped guanine and the ribose 2?-Oposition of the first nucleotide, which help viral RNAs escape recognition by the host innate immune system.\n The RNA genomes of coronavirus were identified to have 5?-caps in the early 1980s.\n However, for decades the RNA capping mechanisms of coronaviruses remained unknown.\n Since 2003, the outbreak of severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus has drawn increased attention and stimulated numerous studies on the molecular virology of coronaviruses.\n Here, we review the current understanding of the mechanisms adopted by coronaviruses to produce the 5?-cap structure and methylation modification of viral genomic RNAs.\n\n","id":"PMC7091378","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Springer Singapore","authors":[{"firstname":"Yu","surname":"Chen","email":"chenyu@whu.edu.cn","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Deyin","surname":"Guo","email":"dguo@whu.edu.cn","contributions":"2"}]},{"doi":"10.1038/s41579-018-0118-9","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Origin and evolution of pathogenic coronaviruses","abstract":"id='Par1'>Severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus (SARS-CoV) and Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus (MERS-CoV) are two highly transmissible and pathogenic viruses that emerged in humans at the beginning of the 21st century.\n Both viruses likely originated in bats, and genetically diverse coronaviruses that are related to SARS-CoV and MERS-CoV were discovered in bats worldwide.\n In this Review, we summarize the current knowledge on the origin and evolution of these two pathogenic coronaviruses and discuss their receptor usage; we also highlight the diversity and potential of spillover of bat-borne coronaviruses, as evidenced by the recent spillover of swine acute diarrhoea syndrome coronavirus (SADS-CoV) to pigs.\n","id":"PMC7097006","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Nature Publishing Group UK","authors":[{"firstname":"Jie","surname":"Cui","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Fang","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Fang","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zheng-Li","surname":"Shi","email":"zlshi@wh.iov.cn","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Transmission scenarios for Middle East Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus (MERS-CoV) and how to tell them apart","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1101/2020.02.07.937862","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Severe acute respiratory syndrome-related coronavirus: The species and its viruses:A statement of the Coronavirus Study Group","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"WHO Named the New Pneumonia &quot;COVID-19&quot;","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1126/science.1087139","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Isolation and characterization of viruses related to the SARS coronavirus from animals in southern China","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.4178/epih/e2015033","date":"2015-07-21","title":"2015 MERS outbreak in Korea: hospital-to-hospital transmission","abstract":"The distinct characteristic of the Middle East Respiratory Syndrome (MERS) outbreak in South Korea is that it not only involves intra-hospital transmission, but it also involves hospital-to-hospital transmission.\n It has been the largest MERS outbreak outside the Middle East, with 186 confirmed cases and, among them, 36 fatal cases as of July 26, 2015. All confirmed cases are suspected to be hospital-acquired infections except one case of household transmission and two cases still undergoing examination.\n The Korean health care system has been the major factor shaping the unique characteristics of the outbreak.\n Taking this as an opportunity, the Korean government should carefully assess the fundamental problems of the vulnerability to hospital infection and make short- as well as long-term plans for countermeasures.\n In addition, it is hoped that this journal, Epidemiology and Health, becomes a place where various topics regarding MERS can be discussed and shared.\n","id":"PMC4533026","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Korean Society of Epidemiology","authors":[{"firstname":"Moran","surname":"Ki","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1056/NEJMoa1401505","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Evidence for camel-to-human transmission of MERS coronavirus","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1080/22221751.2020.1719902","date":"2020-01-17","title":"Genomic characterization of the 2019 novel human-pathogenic coronavirus isolated from a patient with atypical pneumonia after visiting Wuhan","abstract":"A mysterious outbreak of atypical pneumonia in late 2019 was traced to a seafood wholesale market in Wuhan of China.\n Within a few weeks, a novel coronavirus tentatively named as 2019 novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV) was announced by the World Health Organization.\n We performed bioinformatics analysis on a virus genome from a patient with 2019-nCoV infection and compared it with other related coronavirus genomes.\n Overall, the genome of 2019-nCoV has 89% nucleotide identity with bat SARS-like-CoVZXC21 and 82% with that of human SARS-CoV.\n The phylogenetic trees of their orf1a/b, Spike, Envelope, Membrane and Nucleoprotein also clustered closely with those of the bat, civet and human SARS coronaviruses.\n However, the external subdomain of Spikes receptor binding domain of 2019-nCoV shares only 40% amino acid identity with other SARS-related coronaviruses.\n Remarkably, its orf3b encodes a completely novel short protein.\n Furthermore, its new orf8 likely encodes a secreted protein with an alpha-helix, following with a beta-sheet(s) containing six strands.\n Learning from the roles of civet in SARS and camel in MERS, hunting for the animal source of 2019-nCoV and its more ancestral virus would be important for understanding the origin and evolution of this novel lineage B betacoronavirus.\n These findings provide the basis for starting further studies on the pathogenesis, and optimizing the design of diagnostic, antiviral and vaccination strategies for this emerging infection.\n","id":"PMC7067204","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Taylor &amp; Francis","authors":[{"firstname":"Jasper Fuk-Woo","surname":"Chan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Kin-Hang","surname":"Kok","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Kin-Hang","surname":"Kok","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zheng","surname":"Zhu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zheng","surname":"Zhu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hin","surname":"Chu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Kelvin Kai-Wang","surname":"To","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Shuofeng","surname":"Yuan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Kwok-Yung","surname":"Yuen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The 2019 Novel Coronavirus Resource","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"NCBI Database. 2019-nCoV","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"GSAID Database. 2020 Coronavirus","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"NCBI Blast","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Zpicture","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1093/molbev/msw054","date":"1970-01-01","title":"MEGA7: Molecular evolutionary genetics analysis version 7.0 for bigger datasets","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1073/pnas.0404206101","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Prospects for inferring very large phylogenies by using the neighbor-joining method","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1128/CMR.00023-07","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus as an agent of emerging and reemerging infection","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Weekly Epidemiological Record, 2013, vol. 88, 35 [full issue]","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1056/NEJMoa030685","date":"1970-01-01","title":"A major outbreak of severe acute respiratory syndrome in Hong Kong","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1056/NEJMoa030634","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Identification of severe acute respiratory syndrome in Canada","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Severe acute respiratory syndrome-Singapore, 2003","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Summary of Probable SARS Cases with Onset of Illness from 1 November 2002 to 31 July 2003","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1126/science.1236434","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The SARS wake-up call","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/j.tmaid.2014.06.007","date":"2014-06-30","title":"Travel implications of emerging coronaviruses: SARS and MERS-CoV","abstract":"The emergence of Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus (SARS-CoV) and of the Middle East Syndrome Cornavirus (MERS-CoV) caused widespread fear and concern for their potential threat to global health security.\n There are similarities and differences in the epidemiology and clinical features between these two diseases.\n The origin of SARS-COV and MERS-CoV is thought to be an animal source with subsequent transmission to humans.\n The identification of both the intermediate host and the exact route of transmission of MERS-CoV is crucial for the subsequent prevention of the introduction of the virus into the human population.\n So far MERS-CoV had resulted in a limited travel-associated human cases with no major events related to the Hajj.\n","id":"PMC7110592","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Elsevier Ltd.","authors":[{"firstname":"Jaffar A.","surname":"Al-Tawfiq","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Alimuddin","surname":"Zumla","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ziad A.","surname":"Memish","email":"zmemish@yahoo.com","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Epidemic Update and Risk Assessment of 2019 Novel Coronavirus","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.3390/v12020135","date":"2020-01-24","title":"Return of the Coronavirus: 2019-nCoV","abstract":"The emergence of a novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV) has awakened the echoes of SARS-CoV from nearly two decades ago.\n Yet, with technological advances and important lessons gained from previous outbreaks, perhaps the world is better equipped to deal with the most recent emergent group 2B coronavirus.\n","id":"PMC7077245","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"MDPI","authors":[{"firstname":"Lisa E.","surname":"Gralinski","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Vineet D.","surname":"Menachery","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.3201/eid1005.030640","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Clinical Manifestations, Laboratory Findings, and Treatment Outcomes of SARS Patients","abstract":"Clinical and laboratory data on severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS), particularly on the temporal progression of abnormal laboratory findings, are limited.\n We conducted a prospective study on the clinical, radiologic, and hematologic findings of SARS patients with pneumonia, who were admitted to National Taiwan University Hospital from March 8 to June 15, 2003. Fever was the most frequent initial symptom, followed by cough, myalgia, dyspnea, and diarrhea.\n Twenty-four patients had various underlying diseases.\n Most patients had elevated C-reactive protein (CRP) levels and lymphopenia.\n Other common abnormal laboratory findings included leukopenia, thrombocytopenia, and elevated levels of aminotransferase, lactate dehydrogenase, and creatine kinase.\n These clinical and laboratory findings were exacerbated in most patients during the second week of disease.\n The overall case-fatality rate was 19.7%.\n By multivariate analysis, underlying disease and initial CRP level were predictive of death.\n","id":"PMC3323212","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Centers for Disease Control and Prevention","authors":[{"firstname":"Jann-Tay","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Wang-Huei","surname":"Sheng","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Chi-Tai","surname":"Fang","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Yee-Chun","surname":"Chen","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jiun-Ling","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Chong-Jen","surname":"Yu","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Shan-Chwen","surname":"Chang","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Pan-Chyr","surname":"Yang","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.1146/annurev-med-051215-031152","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Middle East respiratory syndrome: Emergence of a pathogenic human coronavirus","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Diagnosis and Treatment of Pneumonia Caused by 2019-nCoV (Trial Version 4)","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Pulmonary rehabilitation guidelines in the principle of 4S for patients infected with 2019 novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV)","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/S1473-3099(09)70069-6","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Incubation periods of acute respiratory viral infections: a systematic review","abstract":"Knowledge of the incubation period is essential in the investigation and control of infectious disease, but statements of incubation period are often poorly referenced, inconsistent, or based on limited data.\n In a systematic review of the literature on nine respiratory viral infections of public-health importance, we identified 436 articles with statements of incubation period and 38 with data for pooled analysis.\n We fitted a log-normal distribution to pooled data and found the median incubation period to be 56 days (95% CI 4863) for adenovirus, 32 days (95% CI 2837) for human coronavirus, 40 days (95% CI 3644) for severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus, 14 days (95% CI 1315) for influenza A, 06 days (95% CI 0506) for influenza B, 125 days (95% CI 118133) for measles, 26 days (95% CI 2131) for parainfluenza, 44 days (95% CI 3949) for respiratory syncytial virus, and 19 days (95% CI 1424) for rhinovirus.\n When using the incubation period, it is important to consider its full distribution: the right tail for quarantine policy, the central regions for likely times and sources of infection, and the full distribution for models used in pandemic planning.\n Our estimates combine published data to give the detail necessary for these and other applications.\n","id":"PMC4327893","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Elsevier Ltd.","authors":[{"firstname":"Justin","surname":"Lessler","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Nicholas G","surname":"Reich","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ron","surname":"Brookmeyer","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Trish M","surname":"Perl","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Kenrad E","surname":"Nelson","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Derek AT","surname":"Cummings","email":"dcumming@jhsph.edu","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.3201/eid1002.030426","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Multiple Contact Dates and SARS Incubation Periods","abstract":"Many severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) patients have multiple possible incubation periods due to multiple contact dates.\n Multiple contact dates cannot be used in standard statistical analytic techniques, however.\n I present a simple spreadsheet-based method that uses multiple contact dates to calculate the possible incubation periods of SARS.\n","id":"PMC3322923","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Centers for Disease Control and Prevention","authors":[{"firstname":"Martin I.","surname":"Meltzer","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1056/NEJMoa2001017","date":"1970-01-01","title":"A Novel Coronavirus from Patients with Pneumonia in China, 2019","abstract":"In December 2019, a cluster of patients with pneumonia of unknown cause was linked to a seafood wholesale market in Wuhan, China.\n A previously unknown betacoronavirus was discovered through the use of unbiased sequencing in samples from patients with pneumonia.\n Human airway epithelial cells were used to isolate a novel coronavirus, named 2019-nCoV, which formed a clade within the subgenus sarbecovirus, Orthocoronavirinae subfamily.\n Different from both MERS-CoV and SARS-CoV, 2019-nCoV is the seventh member of the family of coronaviruses that infect humans.\n Enhanced surveillance and further investigation are ongoing.\n (Funded by the National Key Research and Development Program of China and the National Major Project for Control and Prevention of Infectious Disease in China.\n)","id":"PMC7092803","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Massachusetts Medical Society","authors":[{"firstname":"Na","surname":"Zhu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Dingyu","surname":"Zhang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Wenling","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xingwang","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Bo","surname":"Yang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jingdong","surname":"Song","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xiang","surname":"Zhao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Baoying","surname":"Huang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Weifeng","surname":"Shi","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Roujian","surname":"Lu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Peihua","surname":"Niu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Faxian","surname":"Zhan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xuejun","surname":"Ma","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Dayan","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Wenbo","surname":"Xu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Guizhen","surname":"Wu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"George F.","surname":"Gao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Wenjie","surname":"Tan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1101/2020.02.10.20021675","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Epidemiological and clinical features of the 2019 novel coronavirus outbreak in China","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1046/j.1440-1843.2003.00518.x","date":"1970-01-01","title":"SARS: epidemiology","abstract":"Severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) originated in Southern China in November 2002, and was brought to Hong Kong in February 2003. From Hong Kong, the disease spread rapidly worldwide but mostly to Asian countries.\n At the end of the epidemic in June, the global cumulative total was 8422?cases with 916?deaths (case fatality rate of 11%).\n People of all ages were affected, but predominantly females.\n Health care workers were at high risk and accounted for one?fifth of all cases.\n Risk factors for death included old age and comorbid illnesses, especially diabetes.\n The disease is caused by a novel coronavirus and is transmitted by droplets or direct inoculation from contact with infected surfaces.\n Contaminated sewage was found to be responsible for the outbreak in a housing estate in Hong Kong affecting over 300?residents.\n The mean incubation period was 6.4?days (range?210).\n The duration between onset of symptoms and hospitalisation was from 3 to 5 days.\n The relatively prolonged incubation period allowed asymptomatic air travellers to spread the disease globally.\n The number of individuals infected by each case has been estimated to be 2.7. Effective control of nosocomial transmission included early detection of disease, strict isolation of patients, practice of droplet and contact precautions and compliance with the use of personal protective equipment.\n Effective control of disease spread in the community included tracing and quarantine of contacts.\n Development of a validated diagnostic test and an effective vaccine as well as elimination of possible animal reservoirs are measures needed to prevent another epidemic.\n","id":"PMC7169193","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Blackwell Science Pty","authors":[{"firstname":"Moira","surname":"CHAN?YEUNG","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Rui?Heng","surname":"XU","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.1016/S0140-6736(20)30185-9","date":"1970-01-01","title":"A novel coronavirus outbreak of global health concern","abstract":"","id":"PMC7135038","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Elsevier Ltd.","authors":[{"firstname":"Chen","surname":"Wang","email":"cyh-birm@263.net","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Peter W","surname":"Horby","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Frederick G","surname":"Hayden","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"George F","surname":"Gao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1056/NEJMra032498","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The severe acute respiratory syndrome","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.7326/0003-4819-141-9-200411020-00006","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The epidemiology of severe acute respiratory syndrome in the 2003 Hong Kong epidemic: An analysis of all 1755 patients","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Infectious Disease Expert Li Lanjuan Responded to Six Questions of 2019-nCoV","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1056/NEJMoa2001316","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Early Transmission Dynamics in Wuhan, China, of Novel CoronavirusInfected Pneumonia","abstract":"Background\nThe initial cases of novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV)infected pneumonia (NCIP) occurred in Wuhan, Hubei Province, China, in December 2019 and January 2020. We analyzed data on the first 425 confirmed cases in Wuhan to determine the epidemiologic characteristics of NCIP.\n\n\nMethods\nWe collected information on demographic characteristics, exposure history, and illness timelines of laboratory-confirmed cases of NCIP that had been reported by January 22, 2020. We described characteristics of the cases and estimated the key epidemiologic time-delay distributions.\n\n In the early period of exponential growth, we estimated the epidemic doubling time and the basic reproductive number.\n\n\nResults\nAmong the first 425 patients with confirmed NCIP, the median age was 59 years and 56% were male.\n\n The majority of cases (55%) with onset before January 1, 2020, were linked to the Huanan Seafood Wholesale Market, as compared with 8.6% of the subsequent cases.\n\n The mean incubation period was 5.2 days (95% confidence interval [CI], 4.1 to 7.0), with the 95th percentile of the distribution at 12.5 days.\n\n In its early stages, the epidemic doubled in size every 7.4 days.\n\n With a mean serial interval of 7.5 days (95% CI, 5.3 to 19), the basic reproductive number was estimated to be 2.2 (95% CI, 1.4 to 3.9).\n\n\nConclusions\nOn the basis of this information, there is evidence that human-to-human transmission has occurred among close contacts since the middle of December 2019. Considerable efforts to reduce transmission will be required to control outbreaks if similar dynamics apply elsewhere.\n\n Measures to prevent or reduce transmission should be implemented in populations at risk.\n\n (Funded by the Ministry of Science and Technology of China and others.\n\n)\n","id":"PMC7121484","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Massachusetts Medical Society","authors":[{"firstname":"Qun","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xuhua","surname":"Guan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Peng","surname":"Wu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xiaoye","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Lei","surname":"Zhou","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yeqing","surname":"Tong","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ruiqi","surname":"Ren","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Kathy S.M.","surname":"Leung","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Eric H.Y.","surname":"Lau","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jessica Y.","surname":"Wong","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xuesen","surname":"Xing","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Nijuan","surname":"Xiang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yang","surname":"Wu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Chao","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Qi","surname":"Chen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Dan","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Tian","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jing","surname":"Zhao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Man","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Wenxiao","surname":"Tu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Chuding","surname":"Chen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Lianmei","surname":"Jin","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Rui","surname":"Yang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Qi","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Suhua","surname":"Zhou","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Rui","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hui","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yinbo","surname":"Luo","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yuan","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ge","surname":"Shao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Huan","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zhongfa","surname":"Tao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yang","surname":"Yang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zhiqiang","surname":"Deng","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Boxi","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zhitao","surname":"Ma","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yanping","surname":"Zhang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Guoqing","surname":"Shi","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Tommy T.Y.","surname":"Lam","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Joseph T.","surname":"Wu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"George F.","surname":"Gao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Benjamin J.","surname":"Cowling","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Bo","surname":"Yang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Bo","surname":"Yang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Gabriel M.","surname":"Leung","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zijian","surname":"Feng","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1016/S0140-6736(20)30183-5","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Clinical features of patients infected with 2019 novel coronavirus in Wuhan, China","abstract":"Background\nA recent cluster of pneumonia cases in Wuhan, China, was caused by a novel betacoronavirus, the 2019 novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV).\n\n We report the epidemiological, clinical, laboratory, and radiological characteristics and treatment and clinical outcomes of these patients.\n\n\nMethods\nAll patients with suspected 2019-nCoV were admitted to a designated hospital in Wuhan.\n\n We prospectively collected and analysed data on patients with laboratory-confirmed 2019-nCoV infection by real-time RT-PCR and next-generation sequencing.\n\n Data were obtained with standardised data collection forms shared by WHO and the International Severe Acute Respiratory and Emerging Infection Consortium from electronic medical records.\n\n Researchers also directly communicated with patients or their families to ascertain epidemiological and symptom data.\n\n Outcomes were also compared between patients who had been admitted to the intensive care unit (ICU) and those who had not.\n\n\nFindings\nBy Jan 2, 2020, 41 admitted hospital patients had been identified as having laboratory-confirmed 2019-nCoV infection.\n\n Most of the infected patients were men (30 [73%] of 41); less than half had underlying diseases (13 [32%]), including diabetes (eight [20%]), hypertension (six [15%]), and cardiovascular disease (six [15%]).\n\n Median age was 490 years (IQR 410580).\n\n 27 (66%) of 41 patients had been exposed to Huanan seafood market.\n\n One family cluster was found.\n\n Common symptoms at onset of illness were fever (40 [98%] of 41 patients), cough (31 [76%]), and myalgia or fatigue (18 [44%]); less common symptoms were sputum production (11 [28%] of 39), headache (three [8%] of 38), haemoptysis (two [5%] of 39), and diarrhoea (one [3%] of 38).\n\n Dyspnoea developed in 22 (55%) of 40 patients (median time from illness onset to dyspnoea 80 days [IQR 50130]).\n\n 26 (63%) of 41 patients had lymphopenia.\n\n All 41 patients had pneumonia with abnormal findings on chest CT.\n\n Complications included acute respiratory distress syndrome (12 [29%]), RNAaemia (six [15%]), acute cardiac injury (five [12%]) and secondary infection (four [10%]).\n\n 13 (32%) patients were admitted to an ICU and six (15%) died.\n\n Compared with non-ICU patients, ICU patients had higher plasma levels of IL2, IL7, IL10, GSCF, IP10, MCP1, MIP1A, and TNF?.\n\n\nInterpretation\nThe 2019-nCoV infection caused clusters of severe respiratory illness similar to severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus and was associated with ICU admission and high mortality.\n\n Major gaps in our knowledge of the origin, epidemiology, duration of human transmission, and clinical spectrum of disease need fulfilment by future studies.\n\n\nFunding\nMinistry of Science and Technology, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences, National Natural Science Foundation of China, and Beijing Municipal Science and Technology Commission.\n\n\n","id":"PMC7159299","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Elsevier Ltd.","authors":[{"firstname":"Chaolin","surname":"Huang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yeming","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xingwang","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Lili","surname":"Ren","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jianping","surname":"Zhao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yi","surname":"Hu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Li","surname":"Zhang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Guohui","surname":"Fan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jiuyang","surname":"Xu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xiaoying","surname":"Gu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zhenshun","surname":"Cheng","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ting","surname":"Yu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jiaan","surname":"Xia","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yuan","surname":"Wei","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Wenjuan","surname":"Wu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xuelei","surname":"Xie","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Wen","surname":"Yin","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hui","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Min","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yan","surname":"Xiao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hong","surname":"Gao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Li","surname":"Guo","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jungang","surname":"Xie","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Guangfa","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Rongmeng","surname":"Jiang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zhancheng","surname":"Gao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Qi","surname":"Jin","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jianwei","surname":"Wang","email":"wangjw28@163.com","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Bin","surname":"Cao","email":"caobin_ben@163.com","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1016/S0140-6736(20)30211-7","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Epidemiological and clinical characteristics of 99 cases of 2019 novel coronavirus pneumonia in Wuhan, China: a descriptive study","abstract":"Background\nIn December, 2019, a pneumonia associated with the 2019 novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV) emerged in Wuhan, China.\n\n We aimed to further clarify the epidemiological and clinical characteristics of 2019-nCoV pneumonia.\n\n\nMethods\nIn this retrospective, single-centre study, we included all confirmed cases of 2019-nCoV in Wuhan Jinyintan Hospital from Jan 1 to Jan 20, 2020. Cases were confirmed by real-time RT-PCR and were analysed for epidemiological, demographic, clinical, and radiological features and laboratory data.\n\n Outcomes were followed up until Jan 25, 2020.\nFindings\nOf the 99 patients with 2019-nCoV pneumonia, 49 (49%) had a history of exposure to the Huanan seafood market.\n\n The average age of the patients was 555 years (SD 131), including 67 men and 32 women.\n\n 2019-nCoV was detected in all patients by real-time RT-PCR.\n\n 50 (51%) patients had chronic diseases.\n\n Patients had clinical manifestations of fever (82 [83%] patients), cough (81 [82%] patients), shortness of breath (31 [31%] patients), muscle ache (11 [11%] patients), confusion (nine [9%] patients), headache (eight [8%] patients), sore throat (five [5%] patients), rhinorrhoea (four [4%] patients), chest pain (two [2%] patients), diarrhoea (two [2%] patients), and nausea and vomiting (one [1%] patient).\n\n According to imaging examination, 74 (75%) patients showed bilateral pneumonia, 14 (14%) patients showed multiple mottling and ground-glass opacity, and one (1%) patient had pneumothorax.\n\n 17 (17%) patients developed acute respiratory distress syndrome and, among them, 11 (11%) patients worsened in a short period of time and died of multiple organ failure.\n\n\nInterpretation\nThe 2019-nCoV infection was of clustering onset, is more likely to affect older males with comorbidities, and can result in severe and even fatal respiratory diseases such as acute respiratory distress syndrome.\n\n In general, characteristics of patients who died were in line with the MuLBSTA score, an early warning model for predicting mortality in viral pneumonia.\n\n Further investigation is needed to explore the applicability of the MuLBSTA score in predicting the risk of mortality in 2019-nCoV infection.\n\n\nFunding\nNational Key R&amp;D Program of China.\n\n\n","id":"PMC7135076","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Elsevier Ltd.","authors":[{"firstname":"Nanshan","surname":"Chen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Min","surname":"Zhou","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xuan","surname":"Dong","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jieming","surname":"Qu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Fengyun","surname":"Gong","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yang","surname":"Han","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yang","surname":"Qiu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jingli","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ying","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yuan","surname":"Wei","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jia'an","surname":"Xia","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ting","surname":"Yu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xinxin","surname":"Zhang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Li","surname":"Zhang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Press Conference of the National Health Commission of the People's Republic of China on 3 February 2020","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1099/vir.0.016378-0","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Intraspecies diversity of SARS-like coronaviruses in Rhinolophus sinicus and its implications for the origin of SARS coronaviruses in humans","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/j.meegid.2020.104211","date":"2020-01-28","title":"Novel coronavirus: From discovery to clinical diagnostics","abstract":"A novel coronavirus designated as 2019-nCoV first appeared in Wuhan, China in late December 2019. Dozens of people died in China, and thousands of people infected as 2019-nCoV continues to spread around the world.\n We have described the discovery, emergence, genomic characteristics, and clinical diagnostics of 2019-nCoV.\n","id":"PMC7129799","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Elsevier B.V.","authors":[{"firstname":"Tung","surname":"Phan","email":"phantg@upmc.edu","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.3201/eid1112.041293","date":"1970-01-01","title":"SARS-CoV Infection in a Restaurant from Palm Civet","abstract":"Contact with food animals was associated with SARS-CoV infection in the Peoples Republic of China.\n","id":"PMC3367621","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Centers for Disease Control and Prevention","authors":[{"firstname":"Ming","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Meiying","surname":"Yan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Huifang","surname":"Xu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Weili","surname":"Liang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Biao","surname":"Kan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Bojian","surname":"Zheng","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Honglin","surname":"Chen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Han","surname":"Zheng","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yanmei","surname":"Xu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Enmin","surname":"Zhang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hongxia","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jingrong","surname":"Ye","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Guichang","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Machao","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zhigang","surname":"Cui","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yu-Fei","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Rong-Tong","surname":"Guo","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xiao-Ning","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Liu-Hua","surname":"Zhan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Duan-Hua","surname":"Zhou","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ailan","surname":"Zhao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Rong","surname":"Hai","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Dongzhen","surname":"Yu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yi","surname":"Guan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jianguo","surname":"Xu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1101/2020.01.22.914952","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Discovery of a novel coronavirus associated with the recent pneumonia outbreak in humans and its potential bat origin","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1101/2020.01.21.914044","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Host and infectivity prediction of Wuhan 2019 novel coronavirus using deep learning algorithm","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1002/jmv.25682","date":"2020-01-21","title":"Cross?species transmission of the newly identified coronavirus 2019?nCoV","abstract":"The current outbreak of viral pneumonia in the city of Wuhan, China, was caused by a novel coronavirus designated 2019?nCoV by the World Health Organization, as determined by sequencing the viral RNA genome.\n Many initial patients were exposed to wildlife animals at the Huanan seafood wholesale market, where poultry, snake, bats, and other farm animals were also sold.\n To investigate possible virus reservoir, we have carried out comprehensive sequence analysis and comparison in conjunction with relative synonymous codon usage (RSCU) bias among different animal species based on the 2019?nCoV sequence.\n Results obtained from our analyses suggest that the 2019?nCoV may appear to be a recombinant virus between the bat coronavirus and an origin?unknown coronavirus.\n The recombination may occurred within the viral spike glycoprotein, which recognizes a cell surface receptor.\n Additionally, our findings suggest that 2019?nCoV has most similar genetic information with bat coronovirus and most similar codon usage bias with snake.\n Taken together, our results suggest that homologous recombination may occur and contribute to the 2019?nCoV cross?species transmission.\n","id":"PMC7138088","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"John Wiley and Sons Inc.","authors":[{"firstname":"Wei","surname":"Ji","email":"j102938@126.com","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Wei","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Wei","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xiaofang","surname":"Zhao","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Junjie","surname":"Zai","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xingguang","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"South China Agricultural University: Pangolin May Be a Potential Intermediate Host of New Coronavirus","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.3201/eid1007.030647","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Model Parameters and Outbreak Control for SARS","abstract":"Tool for estimating basic reproductive number for the SARS outbreak suggests need for multiple methods of control.\n","id":"PMC3323341","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Centers for Disease Control and Prevention","authors":[{"firstname":"Gerardo","surname":"Chowell","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Carlos","surname":"Castillo-Chavez","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Paul W.","surname":"Fenimore","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Christopher M.","surname":"Kribs-Zaleta","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Leon","surname":"Arriola","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"James M.","surname":"Hyman","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.1186/1471-2334-10-50","date":"2010-03-06","title":"A comparative epidemiologic analysis of SARS in Hong Kong, Beijing and Taiwan","abstract":"Background\nThe 2002-2003 Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS) outbreak infected 8,422 individuals leading to 916 deaths around the world.\n\n However, there have been few epidemiological studies of SARS comparing epidemiologic features across regions.\n\n The aim of this study is to identify similarities and differences in SARS epidemiology in three populations with similar host and viral genotype.\n\n\nMethods\nWe present a comparative epidemiologic analysis of SARS, based on an integrated dataset with 3,336 SARS patients from Hong Kong, Beijing and Taiwan, epidemiological and clinical characteristics such as incubation, onset-to-admission, onset-to-discharge and onset-to-death periods, case fatality ratios (CFRs) and presenting symptoms are described and compared between regions.\n\n We further explored the influence of demographic and clinical variables on the apparently large differences in CFRs between the three regions.\n\n\nResults\nAll three regions showed similar incubation periods and progressive shortening of the onset-to-admission interval through the epidemic.\n\n Adjusted for sex, health care worker status and nosocomial setting, older age was associated with a higher fatality, with adjusted odds ratio (AOR): 2.10 (95% confidence interval: 1.45, 3.04) for those aged 51-60; AOR: 4.57 (95% confidence interval: 3.32, 7.30) for those aged above 60 compared to those aged 41-50 years.\n\n Presence of pre-existing comorbid conditions was also associated with greater mortality (AOR: 1.74; 95% confidence interval: 1.36, 2.21).\n\n\nConclusion\nThe large discrepancy in crude fatality ratios across the three regions can only be partly explained by epidemiological and clinical heterogeneities.\n\n Our findings underline the importance of a common data collection platform, especially in an emerging epidemic, in order to identify and explain consistencies and differences in the eventual clinical and public health outcomes of infectious disease outbreaks, which is becoming increasingly important in our highly interconnected world.\n\n\n","id":"PMC2846944","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"BioMed Central","authors":[{"firstname":"Eric HY","surname":"Lau","email":"ehylau@hku.hk","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"C Agnes","surname":"Hsiung","email":"hsiung@nhri.org.tw","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Benjamin J","surname":"Cowling","email":"bcowling@hku.hk","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Chang-Hsun","surname":"Chen","email":"leonardo@cdc.gov.tw","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Lai-Ming","surname":"Ho","email":"lmho@hku.hk","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Thomas","surname":"Tsang","email":"thomas_tsang@dh.gov.hk","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Chiu-Wen","surname":"Chang","email":"ccwen@cdc.gov.tw","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Christl A","surname":"Donnelly","email":"c.donnelly@imperial.ac.uk","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Gabriel M","surname":"Leung","email":"gmleung@hku.hk","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Distribution of Pneumonia Infected by 2019-nCoV","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Real-time Updates of COVID-19 Epidemic in China","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.3390/jcm9020330","date":"2020-01-23","title":"The Extent of Transmission of Novel Coronavirus in Wuhan, China, 2020","abstract":"A cluster of pneumonia cases linked to a novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV) was reported by China in late December 2019. Reported case incidence has now reached the hundreds, but this is likely an underestimate.\n As of 24 January 2020, with reports of thirteen exportation events, we estimate the cumulative incidence in China at 5502 cases (95% confidence interval: 3027, 9057).\n The most plausible number of infections is in the order of thousands, rather than hundreds, and there is a strong indication that untraced exposures other than the one in the epidemiologically linked seafood market in Wuhan have occurred.\n","id":"PMC7073674","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"MDPI","authors":[{"firstname":"Hiroshi","surname":"Nishiura","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Sung-mok","surname":"Jung","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Sung-mok","surname":"Jung","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Natalie M.","surname":"Linton","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Natalie M.","surname":"Linton","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ryo","surname":"Kinoshita","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ryo","surname":"Kinoshita","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yichi","surname":"Yang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yichi","surname":"Yang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Katsuma","surname":"Hayashi","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Tetsuro","surname":"Kobayashi","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Baoyin","surname":"Yuan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Andrei R.","surname":"Akhmetzhanov","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1002/jmv.25693","date":"2020-01-27","title":"Potential of large first generation human?to?human transmission of 2019?nCoV","abstract":"To investigate the genetic diversity, time origin, and evolutionary history of the 2019?nCoV outbreak in China and Thailand, a total of 12 genome sequences of the virus with known sampling date (24 December 2019 and 13 January 2020) and geographic location (primarily Wuhan city, Hubei Province, China, but also Bangkok, Thailand) were analyzed.\n Phylogenetic and likelihood?mapping analyses of these genome sequences were performed.\n On the basis of our results, the star?like signal and topology of 2019?nCoV may be indicative of potentially large first generation human?to?human virus transmission.\n We estimated that 2019?nCoV likely originated in Wuhan on 9 November 2019 (95% credible interval: 25 September 2019 and 19 December 2019), and that Wuhan is the major hub for the spread of the 2019?nCoV outbreak in China and elsewhere.\n Our results could be useful for designing effective prevention strategies for 2019?nCoV in China and beyond.\n","id":"PMC7166825","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"John Wiley and Sons Inc.","authors":[{"firstname":"Xingguang","surname":"Li","email":"xingguanglee@hotmail.com","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Junjie","surname":"Zai","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Junjie","surname":"Zai","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xiaomei","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Yi","surname":"Li","email":"liyi@whsw.edu.cn","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1164/rccm.2014P7","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Novel Wuhan (2019-nCoV) Coronavirus","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The Role of Fecal-Oral Transmission in All transmission Still Need Further Observation and Research","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"There Is No Evidence That the New Coronavirus Can Be Transmitted through Aerosol","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.3201/eid1004.030628","date":"1970-01-01","title":"SARS Transmission, Risk Factors, and Prevention in Hong Kong","abstract":"We analyzed information obtainedfrom1,192 patients with probable severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) reported in Hong Kong.\n Among them, 26.6% were hospital workers, 16.1% were household members of SARS patients and had probable secondary infections, 14.3% were Amoy Garden residents, 4.9% were inpatients, and 20.1% were contacts of SARS patients who were not family members.\n The remaining 347 case-patients (29.1%) did not have known sources of infection.\n Excluding those &lt;16 years of age, 330 patients with cases from undefined sources were used in a 1:2 matched case-control study.\n Multivariate analysis of this case-control study showed that having visited mainland China, hospitals, or the Amoy Gardens were risk factors (odds ratio [OR] 1.95 to 7.63).\n In addition, frequent mask use in public venues, frequent hand washing, and disinfecting the living quarters were significant protective factors (OR 0.36 to 0.58).\n In Hong Kong, therefore, community-acquired infection did not make up most transmissions, and public health measures have contributed substantially to the control of the SARS epidemic.\n","id":"PMC3323085","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Centers for Disease Control and Prevention","authors":[{"firstname":"Joseph T.F.","surname":"Lau","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Hiyi","surname":"Tsui","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Mason","surname":"Lau","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Xilin","surname":"Yang","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.1002/jmv.25678","date":"2020-01-15","title":"Outbreak of pneumonia of unknown etiology in Wuhan, China: The mystery and the miracle","abstract":"","id":"PMC7166628","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"John Wiley and Sons Inc.","authors":[{"firstname":"Hongzhou","surname":"Lu","email":"luhongzhou@fudan.edu.cn","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Charles W.","surname":"Stratton","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yi?Wei","surname":"Tang","email":"yi-wei.tang@cepheid.com","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.3201/eid1102.040533","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Wild Animal Mortality Monitoring and Human Ebola Outbreaks, Gabon and Republic of Congo, 20012003","abstract":"An animal mortality monitoring network in Gabon and the Republic of Congo has demonstrated potential to predict and possibly prevent human Ebola outbreaks.\n","id":"PMC3320460","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Centers for Disease Control and Prevention","authors":[{"firstname":"Pierre","surname":"Rouquet","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jean-Marc","surname":"Froment","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Magdalena","surname":"Bermejo","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Annelisa","surname":"Kilbourn","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"William","surname":"Karesh","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Patricia","surname":"Reed","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Brice","surname":"Kumulungui","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Philippe","surname":"Yaba","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Andr","surname":"Dlicat","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Pierre E.","surname":"Rollin","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Eric M.","surname":"Leroy","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.3346/jkms.2020.35.e56","date":"2020-01-30","title":"The Fight against the 2019-nCoV Outbreak: an Arduous March Has Just Begun","abstract":"","id":"PMC6995816","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"The Korean Academy of Medical Sciences","authors":[{"firstname":"Jin-Hong","surname":"Yoo","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.1038/nrmicro.2016.81","date":"1970-01-01","title":"SARS and MERS: recent insights into emerging coronaviruses","abstract":"Supplementary information\nThe online version of this article (doi:10.1038/nrmicro.\n\n2016.81) contains supplementary material, which is available to authorized users.\n\n\n","id":"PMC7097822","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Nature Publishing Group UK","authors":[{"firstname":"Emmie","surname":"de Wit","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Neeltje","surname":"van Doremalen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Darryl","surname":"Falzarano","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Vincent J.","surname":"Munster","email":"vincent.munster@nih.gov","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The First New Coronavirus Species Information Was Published by the National Pathogen Microorganism Resource Bank","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The utility of preemptive mass influenza vaccination in controlling a SARS outbreak during flu season","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.3390/v11040379","date":"2019-04-22","title":"Characterization of a New Member of Alphacoronavirus with Unique Genomic Features in Rhinolophus Bats","abstract":"Bats have been identified as a natural reservoir of a variety of coronaviruses (CoVs).\n Several of them have caused diseases in humans and domestic animals by interspecies transmission.\n Considering the diversity of bat coronaviruses, bat species and populations, we expect to discover more bat CoVs through virus surveillance.\n In this study, we described a new member of alphaCoV (BtCoV/Rh/YN2012) in bats with unique genome features.\n Unique accessory genes, ORF4a and ORF4b were found between the spike gene and the envelope gene, while ORF8 gene was found downstream of the nucleocapsid gene.\n All the putative genes were further confirmed by reverse-transcription analyses.\n One unique gene at the 3 end of the BtCoV/Rh/YN2012 genome, ORF9, exhibits ~30% amino acid identity to ORF7a of the SARS-related coronavirus.\n Functional analysis showed ORF4a protein can activate IFN-? production, whereas ORF3a can regulate NF-?B production.\n We also screened the spike-mediated virus entry using the spike-pseudotyped retroviruses system, although failed to find any fully permissive cells.\n Our results expand the knowledge on the genetic diversity of bat coronaviruses.\n Continuous screening of bat viruses will help us further understand the important role played by bats in coronavirus evolution and transmission.\n","id":"PMC6521148","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"MDPI","authors":[{"firstname":"Ning","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Chuming","surname":"Luo","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Haizhou","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Xinglou","surname":"Yang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ben","surname":"Hu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Wei","surname":"Zhang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Bei","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yan","surname":"Zhu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Guangjian","surname":"Zhu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xurui","surname":"Shen","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Cheng","surname":"Peng","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zhengli","surname":"Shi","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1371/journal.pone.0123126","date":"2015-02-24","title":"Real-Time Sequence-Validated Loop-Mediated Isothermal Amplification Assays for Detection of Middle East Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus (MERS-CoV)","abstract":"The Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus (MERS-CoV), an emerging human coronavirus, causes severe acute respiratory illness with a 35% mortality rate.\n In light of the recent surge in reported infections we have developed asymmetric five-primer reverse transcription loop-mediated isothermal amplification (RT-LAMP) assays for detection of MERS-CoV.\n Isothermal amplification assays will facilitate the development of portable point-of-care diagnostics that are crucial for management of emerging infections.\n The RT-LAMP assays are designed to amplify MERS-CoV genomic loci located within the open reading frame (ORF)1a and ORF1b genes and upstream of the E gene.\n Additionally we applied one-step strand displacement probes (OSD) for real-time sequence-specific verification of LAMP amplicons.\n Asymmetric amplification effected by incorporating a single loop primer in each assay accelerated the time-to-result of the OSD-RT-LAMP assays.\n The resulting assays could detect 0.02 to 0.2 plaque forming units (PFU) (5 to 50 PFU/ml) of MERS-CoV in infected cell culture supernatants within 30 to 50 min and did not cross-react with common human respiratory pathogens.\n","id":"PMC4391951","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Public Library of Science","authors":[{"firstname":"Sanchita","surname":"Bhadra","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Yu Sherry","surname":"Jiang","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Mia R.","surname":"Kumar","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Reed F.","surname":"Johnson","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Lisa E.","surname":"Hensley","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Andrew D.","surname":"Ellington","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Tzong-Yueh","surname":"Chen","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Tzong-Yueh","surname":"Chen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1128/JCM.01224-15","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Development and evaluation of novel real-time reverse transcription-PCR assays with locked nucleic acid probes targeting leader sequences of human-pathogenic coronaviruses","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.2807/1560-7917.ES.2020.25.3.2000044","date":"2020-01-23","title":"Real-time tentative assessment of the epidemiological characteristics of novel coronavirus infections in Wuhan, China, as at 22 January 2020","abstract":"A novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV) causing severe acute respiratory disease emerged recently in Wuhan, China.\n Information on reported cases strongly indicates human-to-human spread, and the most recent information is increasingly indicative of sustained human-to-human transmission.\n While the overall severity profile among cases may change as more mild cases are identified, we estimate a risk of fatality among hospitalised cases at 14% (95% confidence interval: 3.932%).\n","id":"PMC6988272","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC)","authors":[{"firstname":"Peng","surname":"Wu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xinxin","surname":"Hao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Eric H Y","surname":"Lau","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jessica Y","surname":"Wong","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Kathy S M","surname":"Leung","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Joseph T","surname":"Wu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Benjamin J","surname":"Cowling","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Gabriel M","surname":"Leung","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"National Medical Products Administration Examined and Approved the New Nucleic Acid Test Reagent of Coronavirus Again","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1002/jmv.25681","date":"2020-01-21","title":"Emerging coronaviruses: Genome structure, replication, and pathogenesis","abstract":"The recent emergence of a novel coronavirus (2019?nCoV), which is causing an outbreak of unusual viral pneumonia in patients in Wuhan, a central city in China, is another warning of the risk of CoVs posed to public health.\n In this minireview, we provide a brief introduction of the general features of CoVs and describe diseases caused by different CoVs in humans and animals.\n This review will help understand the biology and potential risk of CoVs that exist in richness in wildlife such as bats.\n","id":"PMC7167049","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"John Wiley and Sons Inc.","authors":[{"firstname":"Yu","surname":"Chen","email":"chenyu@whu.edu.cn","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Qianyun","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Deyin","surname":"Guo","email":"guodeyin@mail.sysu.edu.cn","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1016/S0140-6736(03)13973-6","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Treatment of SARS with human interferons","abstract":"Effective antiviral agents are needed to treat severe acute respiratory syndrome-associated coronavirus (SARS-CoV) infection.\n We assessed the antiviral potential of recombinant interferons against two clinical isolates of SARS-CoVFFM-1, from Frankfurt patients, and Hong Kongreplicated in Vero and Caco2 cells.\n Interferon ? was five to ten times more effective in Caco2 cells.\n Interferon ? effectively inhibited SARS-CoV replication, but with a selectivity index 5090 times lower than that for interferon ?.\n Interferon ? was slightly better than interferon ? in Vero cell cultures, but was completely ineffective in Caco2 cell cultures.\n Interferon ? could be useful alone or in combination with other antiviral drugs for the treatment of SARS.\n","id":"PMC7112413","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Elsevier Ltd.","authors":[{"firstname":"J","surname":"Cinatl","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"B","surname":"Morgenstern","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"G","surname":"Bauer","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"P","surname":"Chandra","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"H","surname":"Rabenau","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"HW","surname":"Doerr","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1136/thorax.2003.012658","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Role of lopinavir/ritonavir in the treatment of SARS: Initial virological and clinical findings","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.5582/bst.2020.01020","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Drug treatment options for the 2019-new coronavirus (2019-nCoV)","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Explanation on the Situation that Drugs for AIDS Can Be Tried to Treat Pneumonia Caused by 2019-nCoV Infection","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The Joint Research Team of Shanghai Institute of Materia Medica, Chinese Academy of Sciences, and ShanghaiTech University Discovered a Batch of Old Drugs and Traditional Chinese Medicines with Therapeutic Potential for COVID-19","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"High-Resolution Crystal Structure of 2019-nCoV Coronavirus 3CL Hydrolase (Mpro) was Announced by the Joint Research Team of Shanghai Institute of Materia Medica, Chinese Academy of Sciences, and ShanghaiTech University","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1101/2020.01.27.921627","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Nelfinavir was predicted to be a potential inhibitor of 2019 nCov main protease by an integrative approach combining homology modelling, molecular docking and binding free energy calculation","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1038/s41467-019-13940-6","date":"2019-12-07","title":"Comparative therapeutic efficacy of remdesivir and combination lopinavir, ritonavir, and interferon beta against MERS-CoV","abstract":"id='Par1'>Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus (MERS-CoV) is the causative agent of a severe respiratory disease associated with more than 2468 human infections and over 851 deaths in 27 countries since 2012. There are no approved treatments for MERS-CoV infection although a combination of lopinavir, ritonavir and interferon beta (LPV/RTV-IFNb) is currently being evaluated in humans in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia.\n Here, we show that remdesivir (RDV) and IFNb have superior antiviral activity to LPV and RTV in vitro.\n In mice, both prophylactic and therapeutic RDV improve pulmonary function and reduce lung viral loads and severe lung pathology.\n In contrast, prophylactic LPV/RTV-IFNb slightly reduces viral loads without impacting other disease parameters.\n Therapeutic LPV/RTV-IFNb improves pulmonary function but does not reduce virus replication or severe lung pathology.\n Thus, we provide in vivo evidence of the potential for RDV to treat MERS-CoV infections.\n","id":"PMC6954302","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Nature Publishing Group UK","authors":[{"firstname":"Timothy P.","surname":"Sheahan","email":"sheahan@email.unc.edu","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Amy C.","surname":"Sims","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Amy C.","surname":"Sims","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Sarah R.","surname":"Leist","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Alexandra","surname":"Schfer","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"John","surname":"Won","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ariane J.","surname":"Brown","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Stephanie A.","surname":"Montgomery","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Alison","surname":"Hogg","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Alison","surname":"Hogg","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Darius","surname":"Babusis","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Michael O.","surname":"Clarke","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Michael O.","surname":"Clarke","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jamie E.","surname":"Spahn","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Laura","surname":"Bauer","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Scott","surname":"Sellers","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Danielle","surname":"Porter","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Joy Y.","surname":"Feng","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Tomas","surname":"Cihlar","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Robert","surname":"Jordan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Mark R.","surname":"Denison","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ralph S.","surname":"Baric","email":"rbaric@email.unc.edu","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ralph S.","surname":"Baric","email":"rbaric@email.unc.edu","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1056/NEJMoa1910993","date":"1970-01-01","title":"A randomized, controlled trial of Ebola virus disease therapeutics","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1056/NEJMoa2001191","date":"1970-01-01","title":"First Case of 2019 Novel Coronavirus in the United States","abstract":"An outbreak of novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV) that began in Wuhan, China, has spread rapidly, with cases now confirmed in multiple countries.\n We report the first case of 2019-nCoV infection confirmed in the United States and describe the identification, diagnosis, clinical course, and management of the case, including the patients initial mild symptoms at presentation with progression to pneumonia on day 9 of illness.\n This case highlights the importance of close coordination between clinicians and public health authorities at the local, state, and federal levels, as well as the need for rapid dissemination of clinical information related to the care of patients with this emerging infection.\n","id":"PMC7092802","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Massachusetts Medical Society","authors":[{"firstname":"Michelle L.","surname":"Holshue","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Chas","surname":"DeBolt","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Scott","surname":"Lindquist","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Kathy H.","surname":"Lofy","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"John","surname":"Wiesman","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hollianne","surname":"Bruce","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Christopher","surname":"Spitters","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Keith","surname":"Ericson","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Sara","surname":"Wilkerson","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ahmet","surname":"Tural","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"George","surname":"Diaz","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Amanda","surname":"Cohn","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"LeAnne","surname":"Fox","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Anita","surname":"Patel","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Susan I.","surname":"Gerber","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Lindsay","surname":"Kim","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Suxiang","surname":"Tong","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xiaoyan","surname":"Lu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Steve","surname":"Lindstrom","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Mark A.","surname":"Pallansch","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"William C.","surname":"Weldon","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Holly M.","surname":"Biggs","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Timothy M.","surname":"Uyeki","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Satish K.","surname":"Pillai","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.13242/j.cnki.bingduxuebao.003646","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Research progress on novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV) related drugs in vitro/vivo","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"China-Japan Friendship Hospital: Clinical Experimental Research Work Is Being Carried Out on Remdesivir","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1006/smvy.1996.0046","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Recombination in large RNA viruses: Coronaviruses","abstract":"Coronaviruses contain a very large RNA genome, which undergoes recombination at a very high frequency of nearly 25% for the entire genome.\n Recombination has been demonstrated to occur between viral genomes and between defective-interfering (DI) RNAs and viral RNA.\n It provides an evolutionary tool for both viral RNAs and DI RNA and may account for the diversity in the genomic structure of coronaviruses.\n The capacity of coronaviruses to undergo recombination may be related to its mRNA transcription mechanism, which involves discontinuous RNA synthesis, suggesting the nonprocessive nature of the viral polymerase.\n Recombination is used as a tool for the mutagenesis of viral genomic RNA.\n","id":"PMC7172158","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Published by Elsevier Inc.","authors":[{"firstname":"Michael M.C.","surname":"Lai","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Discovery of seven novel Mammalian and avian coronaviruses in the genus deltacoronavirus supports bat coronaviruses as the gene source of alphacoronavirus and betacoronavirus and avian coronaviruses as the gene source of gammacoronavirus and deltacoronavirus","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/S0140-6736(20)30251-8","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Genomic characterisation and epidemiology of 2019 novel coronavirus: implications for virus origins and receptor binding","abstract":"Background\nIn late December, 2019, patients presenting with viral pneumonia due to an unidentified microbial agent were reported in Wuhan, China.\n\n A novel coronavirus was subsequently identified as the causative pathogen, provisionally named 2019 novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV).\n\n As of Jan 26, 2020, more than 2000 cases of 2019-nCoV infection have been confirmed, most of which involved people living in or visiting Wuhan, and human-to-human transmission has been confirmed.\n\n\nMethods\nWe did next-generation sequencing of samples from bronchoalveolar lavage fluid and cultured isolates from nine inpatients, eight of whom had visited the Huanan seafood market in Wuhan.\n\n Complete and partial 2019-nCoV genome sequences were obtained from these individuals.\n\n Viral contigs were connected using Sanger sequencing to obtain the full-length genomes, with the terminal regions determined by rapid amplification of cDNA ends.\n\n Phylogenetic analysis of these 2019-nCoV genomes and those of other coronaviruses was used to determine the evolutionary history of the virus and help infer its likely origin.\n\n Homology modelling was done to explore the likely receptor-binding properties of the virus.\n\n\nFindings\nThe ten genome sequences of 2019-nCoV obtained from the nine patients were extremely similar, exhibiting more than 9998% sequence identity.\n\n Notably, 2019-nCoV was closely related (with 88% identity) to two bat-derived severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS)-like coronaviruses, bat-SL-CoVZC45 and bat-SL-CoVZXC21, collected in 2018 in Zhoushan, eastern China, but were more distant from SARS-CoV (about 79%) and MERS-CoV (about 50%).\n\n Phylogenetic analysis revealed that 2019-nCoV fell within the subgenus Sarbecovirus of the genus Betacoronavirus, with a relatively long branch length to its closest relatives bat-SL-CoVZC45 and bat-SL-CoVZXC21, and was genetically distinct from SARS-CoV.\n\n Notably, homology modelling revealed that 2019-nCoV had a similar receptor-binding domain structure to that of SARS-CoV, despite amino acid variation at some key residues.\n\n\nInterpretation\n2019-nCoV is sufficiently divergent from SARS-CoV to be considered a new human-infecting betacoronavirus.\n\n Although our phylogenetic analysis suggests that bats might be the original host of this virus, an animal sold at the seafood market in Wuhan might represent an intermediate host facilitating the emergence of the virus in humans.\n\n Importantly, structural analysis suggests that 2019-nCoV might be able to bind to the angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 receptor in humans.\n\n The future evolution, adaptation, and spread of this virus warrant urgent investigation.\n\n\nFunding\nNational Key Research and Development Program of China, National Major Project for Control and Prevention of Infectious Disease in China, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Shandong First Medical University.\n\n\n","id":"PMC7159086","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Elsevier Ltd.","authors":[{"firstname":"Roujian","surname":"Lu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xiang","surname":"Zhao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Juan","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Peihua","surname":"Niu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Bo","surname":"Yang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Honglong","surname":"Wu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Wenling","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hao","surname":"Song","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Baoying","surname":"Huang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Na","surname":"Zhu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yuhai","surname":"Bi","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xuejun","surname":"Ma","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Faxian","surname":"Zhan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Liang","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Tao","surname":"Hu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hong","surname":"Zhou","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zhenhong","surname":"Hu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Weimin","surname":"Zhou","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Li","surname":"Zhao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jing","surname":"Chen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yao","surname":"Meng","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ji","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yang","surname":"Lin","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jianying","surname":"Yuan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zhihao","surname":"Xie","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jinmin","surname":"Ma","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"William J","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Dayan","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Wenbo","surname":"Xu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Edward C","surname":"Holmes","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"George F","surname":"Gao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Guizhen","surname":"Wu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Weijun","surname":"Chen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Weifeng","surname":"Shi","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Wenjie","surname":"Tan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1038/s41420-019-0181-7","date":"2019-05-13","title":"SARS-Coronavirus Open Reading Frame-8b triggers intracellular stress pathways and activates NLRP3 inflammasomes","abstract":"id='Par1'>The SARS (severe acute respiratory syndrome) outbreak was caused by a coronavirus (CoV) named the SARS-CoV.\n SARS pathology is propagated both by direct cytotoxic effects of the virus and aberrant activation of the innate immune response.\n Here, we identify several mechanisms by which a SARS-CoV open reading frame (ORF) activates intracellular stress pathways and targets the innate immune response.\n We show that ORF8b forms insoluble intracellular aggregates dependent on a valine at residue 77. Aggregated ORF8b induces endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress, lysosomal damage, and subsequent activation of the master regulator of the autophagy and lysosome machinery, Transcription factor EB (TFEB).\n ORF8b causes cell death in epithelial cells, which is partially rescued by reducing its ability to aggregate.\n In macrophages, ORF8b robustly activates the NLRP3 inflammasome by providing a potent signal 2 required for activation.\n Mechanistically, ORF8b interacts directly with the Leucine Rich Repeat domain of NLRP3 and localizes with NLRP3 and ASC in cytosolic dot-like structures.\n ORF8b triggers cell death consistent with pyroptotic cell death in macrophages.\n While in those cells lacking NLRP3 accumulating ORF8b cytosolic aggregates cause ER stress, mitochondrial dysfunction, and caspase-independent cell death.\n","id":"PMC6549181","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Nature Publishing Group UK","authors":[{"firstname":"Chong-Shan","surname":"Shi","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Neel R.","surname":"Nabar","email":"neel.nabar@nih.gov","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ning-Na","surname":"Huang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ning-Na","surname":"Huang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"John H.","surname":"Kehrl","email":"jkehrl@niaid.nih.gov","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1016/j.coviro.2017.01.002","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Jumping speciesa mechanism for coronavirus persistence and survival","abstract":"Zoonotic transmission of novel viruses represents a significant threat to global public health and is fueled by globalization, the loss of natural habitats, and exposure to new hosts.\n For coronaviruses (CoVs), broad diversity exists within bat populations and uniquely positions them to seed future emergence events.\n In this review, we explore the host and viral dynamics that shape these CoV populations for survival, amplification, and possible emergence in novel hosts.\n","id":"PMC5474123","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V.","authors":[{"firstname":"Vineet D","surname":"Menachery","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Rachel L","surname":"Graham","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ralph S","surname":"Baric","email":"rbaric@email.unc.edu","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1007/s12250-018-0012-7","date":"2018-01-08","title":"Serological Evidence of Bat SARS-Related Coronavirus Infection in Humans, China","abstract":"","id":"PMC6178078","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Springer Singapore","authors":[{"firstname":"Ning","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Shi-Yue","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xing-Lou","surname":"Yang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hui-Min","surname":"Huang","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Yu-Ji","surname":"Zhang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hua","surname":"Guo","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Chu-Ming","surname":"Luo","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Maureen","surname":"Miller","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Guangjian","surname":"Zhu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Aleksei A.","surname":"Chmura","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Emily","surname":"Hagan","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ji-Hua","surname":"Zhou","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Yun-Zhi","surname":"Zhang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Lin-Fa","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Peter","surname":"Daszak","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zheng-Li","surname":"Shi","email":"zlshi@wh.iov.cn","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1126/sciadv.aav4580","date":"2019-02-14","title":"A pan-coronavirus fusion inhibitor targeting the HR1 domain of human coronavirus spike","abstract":"EK1 is a broad-spectrum human coronavirus fusion inhibitor for combating infection of current and emerging coronaviruses.\n","id":"PMC6457931","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"American Association for the Advancement of Science","authors":[{"firstname":"Shuai","surname":"Xia","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Lei","surname":"Yan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Lei","surname":"Yan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Wei","surname":"Xu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Wei","surname":"Xu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Anurodh Shankar","surname":"Agrawal","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Anurodh Shankar","surname":"Agrawal","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Abdullah","surname":"Algaissi","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Chien-Te K.","surname":"Tseng","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Qian","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Lanying","surname":"Du","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Wenjie","surname":"Tan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ian A.","surname":"Wilson","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Shibo","surname":"Jiang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Shibo","surname":"Jiang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Bei","surname":"Yang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Bei","surname":"Yang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Lu","surname":"Lu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Lu","surname":"Lu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1046/j.1440-1843.2003.00517.x","date":"1970-01-01","title":"SARS: clinical virology and pathogenesis","abstract":"Severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) is caused by a novel coronavirus, called the SARS coronavirus (SARS?CoV).\n Over 95% of well characterized cohorts of SARS have evidence of recent SARS?CoV infection.\n The genome of SARS?CoV has been sequenced and it is not related to any of the previously known human or animal coronaviruses.\n It is probable that SARS?CoV was an animal virus that adapted to human?human transmission in the recent past.\n The virus can be found in nasopharyngeal aspirate, urine and stools of SARS patients.\n Second generation reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction assays are able to detect SARS?CoV in nasopharyngeal aspirates of approximately 80% of patients with SARS within the first 3?days of illness.\n Seroconversion for SARS?CoV using immunofluorescence on infected cells is an excellent method of confirming the diagnosis, but antibody responses only appear around day?10 of the illness.\n Within the first 10?days the histological picture is that of acute phase diffuse alveolar damage (DAD) with a mixture of inflammatory infiltrate, oedema and hyaline membrane formation.\n Desquamation of pneumocytes is prominent and consistent.\n After 10 days of illness the picture changes to one of organizing DAD with increased fibrosis, squamous metaplasia and multinucleated giant cells.\n The role of cytokines in the pathogenesis of SARS is still unclear.\n","id":"PMC7169081","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Blackwell Science Pty","authors":[{"firstname":"John","surname":"NICHOLLS","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Xiao?Ping","surname":"DONG","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Gu","surname":"JIANG","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Malik","surname":"PEIRIS","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.1002/path.2067","date":"2006-08-08","title":"Expression of elevated levels of pro?inflammatory cytokines in SARS?CoV?infected ACE2<","abstract":"The authors have previously shown that acute lung injury (ALI) produces a wide spectrum of pathological processes in patients who die of severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) and that the SARS coronavirus (SARS?CoV) nucleoprotein is detectable in the lungs, and other organs and tissues, in these patients.\n In the present study, immunohistochemistry (IHC) and in situ hybridization (ISH) assays were used to analyse the expression of angiotensin?converting enzyme 2 (ACE2), SARS?CoV spike (S) protein, and some pro?inflammatory cytokines (PICs) including MCP?1, TGF??1, TNF??, IL?1?, and IL?6 in autopsy tissues from four patients who died of SARS.\n SARS?CoV S protein and its RNA were only detected in ACE2+ cells in the lungs and other organs, indicating that ACE2?expressing cells are the primary targets for SARS?CoV infection in vivo in humans.\n High levels of PICs were expressed in the SARS?CoV?infected ACE2+ cells, but not in the uninfected cells.\n These results suggest that cells infected by SARS?CoV produce elevated levels of PICs which may cause immuno?mediated damage to the lungs and other organs, resulting in ALI and, subsequently, multi?organ dysfunction.\n Therefore application of PIC antagonists may reduce the severity and mortality of SARS.\n Copyright  2006 Pathological Society of Great Britain and Ireland.\n Published by John Wiley &amp; Sons, Ltd.\n","id":"PMC7167655","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"John Wiley &amp; Sons, Ltd.","authors":[{"firstname":"L","surname":"He","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Y","surname":"Ding","email":"dyq@fimmu.com","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Q","surname":"Zhang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"X","surname":"Che","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Y","surname":"He","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"H","surname":"Shen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"H","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Z","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"L","surname":"Zhao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"J","surname":"Geng","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Y","surname":"Deng","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"L","surname":"Yang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"J","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"J","surname":"Cai","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"L","surname":"Qiu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"K","surname":"Wen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"X","surname":"Xu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"S","surname":"Jiang","email":"sjiang@nybloodcenter.org","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1002/path.1570","date":"2004-03-15","title":"Tissue distribution of ACE2 protein, the functional receptor for SARS coronavirus. A first step in understanding SARS pathogenesis","abstract":"Severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) is an acute infectious disease that spreads mainly via the respiratory route.\n A distinct coronavirus (SARS?CoV) has been identified as the aetiological agent of SARS.\n Recently, a metallopeptidase named angiotensin?converting enzyme 2 (ACE2) has been identified as the functional receptor for SARS?CoV.\n Although ACE2 mRNA is known to be present in virtually all organs, its protein expression is largely unknown.\n Since identifying the possible route of infection has major implications for understanding the pathogenesis and future treatment strategies for SARS, the present study investigated the localization of ACE2 protein in various human organs (oral and nasal mucosa, nasopharynx, lung, stomach, small intestine, colon, skin, lymph nodes, thymus, bone marrow, spleen, liver, kidney, and brain).\n The most remarkable finding was the surface expression of ACE2 protein on lung alveolar epithelial cells and enterocytes of the small intestine.\n Furthermore, ACE2 was present in arterial and venous endothelial cells and arterial smooth muscle cells in all organs studied.\n In conclusion, ACE2 is abundantly present in humans in the epithelia of the lung and small intestine, which might provide possible routes of entry for the SARS?CoV.\n This epithelial expression, together with the presence of ACE2 in vascular endothelium, also provides a first step in understanding the pathogenesis of the main SARS disease manifestations.\n Copyright  2004 Pathological Society of Great Britain and Ireland.\n Published by John Wiley &amp; Sons, Ltd.\n","id":"PMC7167720","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"John Wiley &amp; Sons, Ltd.","authors":[{"firstname":"I","surname":"Hamming","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"W","surname":"Timens","email":"w.timens@path.azg.nl","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"MLC","surname":"Bulthuis","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"AT","surname":"Lely","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"GJ","surname":"Navis","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"H","surname":"van Goor","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1038/nrmicro2147","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Coronaviruses post-SARS: update on replication and pathogenesis","abstract":"id='Par3'>\nCoronaviruses are positive strand RNA viruses that cause disease in humans, and domestic and companion animals.\n They are most notorious for causing severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) outbreaks in 20022003. All coronaviruses follow the same basic strategy of replication.\n","id":"PMC2830095","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Nature Publishing Group UK","authors":[{"firstname":"Stanley","surname":"Perlman","email":"stanley-perlman@uiowa.edu","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jason","surname":"Netland","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1002/path.1440","date":"2003-05-19","title":"The clinical pathology of severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS): a report from China","abstract":"In order to investigate the clinical pathology of severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS), the autopsies of three patients who died from SARS in Nan Fang Hospital Guangdong, China were studied retrospectively.\n Routine haematoxylin and eosin (H&amp;E) staining was used to study all of the tissues from the three cases.\n The lung tissue specimens were studied further with Macchiavello staining, viral inclusion body staining, reticulin staining, PAS staining, immunohistochemistry, ultrathin sectioning and staining, light microscopy, and transmission electron microscopy.\n The first symptom was hyperpyrexia in all three cases, followed by progressive dyspnoea and lung field shadowing.\n The pulmonary lesions included bilateral extensive consolidation, localized haemorrhage and necrosis, desquamative pulmonary alveolitis and bronchitis, proliferation and desquamation of alveolar epithelial cells, exudation of protein and monocytes, lymphocytes and plasma cells in alveoli, hyaline membrane formation, and viral inclusion bodies in alveolar epithelial cells.\n There was also massive necrosis of splenic lymphoid tissue and localized necrosis in lymph nodes.\n Systemic vasculitis included oedema, localized fibrinoid necrosis, and infiltration of monocytes, lymphocytes, and plasma cells into vessel walls in the heart, lung, liver, kidney, adrenal gland, and the stroma of striated muscles.\n Thrombosis was present in small veins.\n Systemic toxic changes included degeneration and necrosis of the parenchyma cells in the lung, liver, kidney, heart, and adrenal gland.\n Electron microscopy demonstrated clusters of viral particles, consistent with coronavirus, in lung tissue.\n SARS is a systemic disease that injures many organs.\n The lungs, immune organs, and systemic small vessels are the main targets of virus attack, so that extensive consolidation of the lung, diffuse alveolar damage with hyaline membrane formation, respiratory distress, and decreased immune function are the main causes of death.\n Copyright  2003 John Wiley &amp; Sons, Ltd.\n","id":"PMC7168017","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"John Wiley &amp; Sons, Ltd.","authors":[{"firstname":"Yanqing","surname":"Ding","email":"dyq@fimmu.com","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Huijun","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hong","surname":"Shen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zhuguo","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jian","surname":"Geng","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Huixia","surname":"Han","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Junjie","surname":"Cai","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xin","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Wei","surname":"Kang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Desheng","surname":"Weng","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yaodan","surname":"Lu","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Dehua","surname":"Wu","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Li","surname":"He","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Kaitai","surname":"Yao","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.1002/path.1560","date":"2004-02-12","title":"Organ distribution of severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) associated coronavirus (SARS?CoV) in SARS patients: implications for pathogenesis and virus transmission pathways","abstract":"We previously identified the major pathological changes in the respiratory and immune systems of patients who died of severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) but gained little information on the organ distribution of SARS?associated coronavirus (SARS?CoV).\n In the present study, we used a murine monoclonal antibody specific for SARS?CoV nucleoprotein, and probes specific for a SARS?CoV RNA polymerase gene fragment, for immunohistochemistry and in situ hybridization, respectively, to detect SARS?CoV systematically in tissues from patients who died of SARS.\n SARS?CoV was found in lung, trachea/bronchus, stomach, small intestine, distal convoluted renal tubule, sweat gland, parathyroid, pituitary, pancreas, adrenal gland, liver and cerebrum, but was not detected in oesophagus, spleen, lymph node, bone marrow, heart, aorta, cerebellum, thyroid, testis, ovary, uterus or muscle.\n These results suggest that, in addition to the respiratory system, the gastrointestinal tract and other organs with detectable SARS?CoV may also be targets of SARS?CoV infection.\n The pathological changes in these organs may be caused directly by the cytopathic effect mediated by local replication of the SARS?CoV; or indirectly as a result of systemic responses to respiratory failure or the harmful immune response induced by viral infection.\n In addition to viral spread through a respiratory route, SARS?CoV in the intestinal tract, kidney and sweat glands may be excreted via faeces, urine and sweat, thereby leading to virus transmission.\n This study provides important information for understanding the pathogenesis of SARS?CoV infection and sheds light on possible virus transmission pathways.\n This data will be useful for designing new strategies for prevention and treatment of SARS.\n Copyright  2004 Pathological Society of Great Britain and Ireland.\n Published by John Wiley &amp; Sons, Ltd.\n","id":"PMC7167761","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"John Wiley &amp; Sons, Ltd.","authors":[{"firstname":"Yanqing","surname":"Ding","email":"dyq@fimmu.com","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Li","surname":"He","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Qingling","surname":"Zhang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zhongxi","surname":"Huang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xiaoyan","surname":"Che","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jinlin","surname":"Hou","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Huijun","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hong","surname":"Shen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Liwen","surname":"Qiu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zhuguo","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jian","surname":"Geng","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Junjie","surname":"Cai","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Huixia","surname":"Han","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xin","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Wei","surname":"Kang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Desheng","surname":"Weng","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ping","surname":"Liang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Shibo","surname":"Jiang","email":"sjiang@nybloodcenter.org","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1046/j.1440-1843.2003.00520.x","date":"1970-01-01","title":"SARS: clinical features and diagnosis","abstract":"Severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) is a highly infectious disease with a significant morbidity and case fatality.\n The major clinical features include persistent fever, chills/rigor, myalgia, malaise, dry cough, headache and dyspnoea.\n Less common symptoms include sputum production, sore throat, coryza, dizziness, nausea, vomiting and diarrhoea.\n Older subjects may present with decrease in general well?being, poor feeding, fall/fracture and delirium, without the typical febrile response.\n Common laboratory features include lymphopenia with depletion of CD4 and CD8 lymphocytes, thrombocytopenia, prolonged activated partial thromboplastin time, elevated D?Dimer, elevated alanine transminases, lactate dehydrogenase and creatinine kinase.\n The constellation of compatible clinical and laboratory findings, together with the rather characteristic radiological features especially on HRCT and the lack of clinical response to broad?spectrum antibiotics, should quickly arouse suspicion of SARS.\n","id":"PMC7169175","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Blackwell Science Pty","authors":[{"firstname":"David Shu?Cheong","surname":"HUI","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Poon?Chuen","surname":"WONG","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Chen","surname":"WANG","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.1016/j.virusres.2014.11.021","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Host cell proteases: Critical determinants of coronavirus tropism and pathogenesis","abstract":"\n\n\n\nCoronavirus spike proteins can be cleaved by a multitude of host cell proteases.\n","id":"PMC4465284","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Elsevier B.V.","authors":[{"firstname":"Jean Kaoru","surname":"Millet","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Gary R.","surname":"Whittaker","email":"grw7@cornell.edu","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1038/s41586-020-2012-7","date":"2020-01-29","title":"A pneumonia outbreak associated with a new coronavirus of probable bat origin","abstract":"id='Par1'>Since the outbreak of severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) 18years ago, a large number of SARS-related coronaviruses (SARSr-CoVs) have been discovered in their natural reservoir host, bats14.\n Previous studies have shown that some bat SARSr-CoVs have the potential to infect humans57.\n Here we report the identification and characterization of a new coronavirus (2019-nCoV), which caused an epidemic of acute respiratory syndrome in humans in Wuhan, China.\n The epidemic, which started on 12 December 2019, had caused 2,794 laboratory-confirmed infections including 80 deaths by 26 January 2020. Full-length genome sequences were obtained from five patients at an early stage of the outbreak.\n The sequences are almost identical and share 79.6% sequence identity to SARS-CoV.\n Furthermore, we show that 2019-nCoV is 96% identical at the whole-genome level to a bat coronavirus.\n Pairwise protein sequence analysis of seven conserved non-structural proteins domains show that this virus belongs to the species of SARSr-CoV.\n In addition, 2019-nCoV virus isolated from the bronchoalveolar lavage fluid of a critically ill patient could be neutralized by sera from several patients.\n Notably, we confirmed that 2019-nCoV uses the same cell entry receptorangiotensin converting enzyme II (ACE2)as SARS-CoV.\n","id":"PMC7095418","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Nature Publishing Group UK","authors":[{"firstname":"Peng","surname":"Zhou","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xing-Lou","surname":"Yang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xian-Guang","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ben","surname":"Hu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Lei","surname":"Zhang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Wei","surname":"Zhang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hao-Rui","surname":"Si","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yan","surname":"Zhu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Bei","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Chao-Lin","surname":"Huang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hui-Dong","surname":"Chen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jing","surname":"Chen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yun","surname":"Luo","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hua","surname":"Guo","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ren-Di","surname":"Jiang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Mei-Qin","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ying","surname":"Chen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xu-Rui","surname":"Shen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xi","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xiao-Shuang","surname":"Zheng","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Kai","surname":"Zhao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Quan-Jiao","surname":"Chen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Fei","surname":"Deng","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Lin-Lin","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Bing","surname":"Yan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Fa-Xian","surname":"Zhan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yan-Yi","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Geng-Fu","surname":"Xiao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zheng-Li","surname":"Shi","email":"zlshi@wh.iov.cn","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1038/nm1267","date":"2005-06-03","title":"A crucial role of angiotensin converting enzyme 2 (ACE2) in SARS coronavirusinduced lung injury","abstract":"Supplementary information\nThe online version of this article (doi:10.1038/nm1267) contains supplementary material, which is available to authorized users.\n\n\n","id":"PMC7095783","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Nature Publishing Group US","authors":[{"firstname":"Keiji","surname":"Kuba","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yumiko","surname":"Imai","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Shuan","surname":"Rao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hong","surname":"Gao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Feng","surname":"Guo","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Bin","surname":"Guan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yi","surname":"Huan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Peng","surname":"Yang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yanli","surname":"Zhang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Wei","surname":"Deng","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Linlin","surname":"Bao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Binlin","surname":"Zhang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Guang","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zhong","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Mark","surname":"Chappell","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yanxin","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Dexian","surname":"Zheng","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Andreas","surname":"Leibbrandt","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Teiji","surname":"Wada","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Arthur S","surname":"Slutsky","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Depei","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Chuan","surname":"Qin","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Chengyu","surname":"Jiang","email":"jiang@pumc.edu.cn","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Josef M","surname":"Penninger","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1038/nature03712","date":"2005-04-29","title":"Angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 protects from severe acute lung failure","abstract":"Supplementary information\nThe online version of this article (doi:10.1038/nature03712) contains supplementary material, which is available to authorized users.\n\n\n","id":"PMC7094998","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Nature Publishing Group UK","authors":[{"firstname":"Yumiko","surname":"Imai","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Keiji","surname":"Kuba","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Shuan","surname":"Rao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yi","surname":"Huan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Feng","surname":"Guo","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Bin","surname":"Guan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Peng","surname":"Yang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Renu","surname":"Sarao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Teiji","surname":"Wada","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Howard","surname":"Leong-Poi","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Michael A.","surname":"Crackower","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Akiyoshi","surname":"Fukamizu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Chi-Chung","surname":"Hui","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Lutz","surname":"Hein","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Stefan","surname":"Uhlig","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Arthur S.","surname":"Slutsky","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Chengyu","surname":"Jiang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Josef M.","surname":"Penninger","email":"Josef.penninger@imba.oeaw.ac.at","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1038/nature02145","date":"2003-10-23","title":"Angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 is a functional receptor for the SARS coronavirus","abstract":"Supplementary information\nThe online version of this article (doi:10.1038/nature02145) contains supplementary material, which is available to authorized users.\n\n\n","id":"PMC7095016","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Nature Publishing Group UK","authors":[{"firstname":"Wenhui","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Michael J.","surname":"Moore","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Natalya","surname":"Vasilieva","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jianhua","surname":"Sui","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Swee Kee","surname":"Wong","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Michael A.","surname":"Berne","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Mohan","surname":"Somasundaran","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"John L.","surname":"Sullivan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Katherine","surname":"Luzuriaga","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Thomas C.","surname":"Greenough","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hyeryun","surname":"Choe","email":"hyeryun.choe@tch.harvard.edu","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Michael","surname":"Farzan","email":"farzan@mbcrr.harvard.edu","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1128/JVI.00127-20","date":"2020-01-28","title":"Receptor Recognition by the Novel Coronavirus from Wuhan: an Analysis Based on Decade-Long Structural Studies of SARS Coronavirus","abstract":"The recent emergence of Wuhan coronavirus (2019-nCoV) puts the world on alert.\n 2019-nCoV is reminiscent of the SARS-CoV outbreak in 2002 to 2003. Our decade-long structural studies on the receptor recognition by SARS-CoV have identified key interactions between SARS-CoV spike protein and its host receptor angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2), which regulate both the cross-species and human-to-human transmissions of SARS-CoV.\n One of the goals of SARS-CoV research was to build an atomic-level iterative framework of virus-receptor interactions to facilitate epidemic surveillance, predict species-specific receptor usage, and identify potential animal hosts and animal models of viruses.\n Based on the sequence of 2019-nCoV spike protein, we apply this predictive framework to provide novel insights into the receptor usage and likely host range of 2019-nCoV.\n This study provides a robust test of this reiterative framework, providing the basic, translational, and public health research communities with predictive insights that may help study and battle this novel 2019-nCoV.\n","id":"PMC7081895","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"American Society for Microbiology","authors":[{"firstname":"Yushun","surname":"Wan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jian","surname":"Shang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Rachel","surname":"Graham","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ralph S.","surname":"Baric","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Fang","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Tom","surname":"Gallagher","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Tom","surname":"Gallagher","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1111/eci.13209","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The novel Chinese coronavirus (2019?nCoV) infections: Challenges for fighting the storm","abstract":"","id":"PMC7163647","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"John Wiley and Sons Inc.","authors":[{"firstname":"Matteo","surname":"Bassetti","email":"matteo.bassetti@unige.it","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Antonio","surname":"Vena","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Daniele Roberto","surname":"Giacobbe","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1016/j.tim.2016.03.003","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Epidemiology, Genetic Recombination, and Pathogenesis of Coronaviruses","abstract":"Human coronaviruses (HCoVs) were first described in the 1960s for patients with the common cold.\n Since then, more HCoVs have been discovered, including those that cause severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) and Middle East respiratory syndrome (MERS), two pathogens that, upon infection, can cause fatal respiratory disease in humans.\n It was recently discovered that dromedary camels in Saudi Arabia harbor three different HCoV species, including a dominant MERS HCoV lineage that was responsible for the outbreaks in the Middle East and South Korea during 2015. In this review we aim to compare and contrast the different HCoVs with regard to epidemiology and pathogenesis, in addition to the virus evolution and recombination events which have, on occasion, resulted in outbreaks amongst humans.\n","id":"PMC7125511","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Elsevier Ltd.","authors":[{"firstname":"Shuo","surname":"Su","email":"shuosu@njau.edu.cn","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Gary","surname":"Wong","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Weifeng","surname":"Shi","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jun","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Alexander C.K.","surname":"Lai","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jiyong","surname":"Zhou","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Wenjun","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yuhai","surname":"Bi","email":"beeyh@im.ac.cn","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"George F.","surname":"Gao","email":"gaof@im.ac.cn","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.3201/eid2006.140299","date":"1970-01-01","title":"MERS Coronaviruses in Dromedary Camels, Egypt","abstract":"We identified the near-full-genome sequence (29,908 nt, &gt;99%) of Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus (MERS-CoV) from a nasal swab specimen from a dromedary camel in Egypt.\n We found that viruses genetically very similar to human MERS-CoV are infecting dromedaries beyond the Arabian Peninsula, where human MERS-CoV infections have not yet been detected.\n","id":"PMC4036765","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Centers for Disease Control and Prevention","authors":[{"firstname":"Daniel K.W.","surname":"Chu","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Leo L.M.","surname":"Poon","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Mokhtar M.","surname":"Gomaa","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Mahmoud M.","surname":"Shehata","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ranawaka A.P.M.","surname":"Perera","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Dina","surname":"Abu Zeid","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Amira S.","surname":"El Rifay","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Lewis Y.","surname":"Siu","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Yi","surname":"Guan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Richard J.","surname":"Webby","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Mohamed A.","surname":"Ali","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Malik","surname":"Peiris","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ghazi","surname":"Kayali","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]}]},{"doi":"10.1016/S0140-6736(20)30260-9","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Nowcasting and forecasting the potential domestic and international spread of the 2019-nCoV outbreak originating in Wuhan, China: a modelling study","abstract":"Background\nSince Dec 31, 2019, the Chinese city of Wuhan has reported an outbreak of atypical pneumonia caused by the 2019 novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV).\n\n Cases have been exported to other Chinese cities, as well as internationally, threatening to trigger a global outbreak.\n\n Here, we provide an estimate of the size of the epidemic in Wuhan on the basis of the number of cases exported from Wuhan to cities outside mainland China and forecast the extent of the domestic and global public health risks of epidemics, accounting for social and non-pharmaceutical prevention interventions.\n\n\nMethods\nWe used data from Dec 31, 2019, to Jan 28, 2020, on the number of cases exported from Wuhan internationally (known days of symptom onset from Dec 25, 2019, to Jan 19, 2020) to infer the number of infections in Wuhan from Dec 1, 2019, to Jan 25, 2020. Cases exported domestically were then estimated.\n\n We forecasted the national and global spread of 2019-nCoV, accounting for the effect of the metropolitan-wide quarantine of Wuhan and surrounding cities, which began Jan 2324, 2020. We used data on monthly flight bookings from the Official Aviation Guide and data on human mobility across more than 300 prefecture-level cities in mainland China from the Tencent database.\n\n Data on confirmed cases were obtained from the reports published by the Chinese Center for Disease Control and Prevention.\n\n Serial interval estimates were based on previous studies of severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus (SARS-CoV).\n\n A susceptible-exposed-infectious-recovered metapopulation model was used to simulate the epidemics across all major cities in China.\n\n The basic reproductive number was estimated using Markov Chain Monte Carlo methods and presented using the resulting posterior mean and 95% credibile interval (CrI).\n\n\nFindings\nIn our baseline scenario, we estimated that the basic reproductive number for 2019-nCoV was 268 (95% CrI 247286) and that 75?815 individuals (95% CrI 37?304130?330) have been infected in Wuhan as of Jan 25, 2020. The epidemic doubling time was 64 days (95% CrI 5871).\n\n We estimated that in the baseline scenario, Chongqing, Beijing, Shanghai, Guangzhou, and Shenzhen had imported 461 (95% CrI 227805), 113 (57193), 98 (49168), 111 (56191), and 80 (40139) infections from Wuhan, respectively.\n\n If the transmissibility of 2019-nCoV were similar everywhere domestically and over time, we inferred that epidemics are already growing exponentially in multiple major cities of China with a lag time behind the Wuhan outbreak of about 12 weeks.\n\n\nInterpretation\nGiven that 2019-nCoV is no longer contained within Wuhan, other major Chinese cities are probably sustaining localised outbreaks.\n\n Large cities overseas with close transport links to China could also become outbreak epicentres, unless substantial public health interventions at both the population and personal levels are implemented immediately.\n\n Independent self-sustaining outbreaks in major cities globally could become inevitable because of substantial exportation of presymptomatic cases and in the absence of large-scale public health interventions.\n\n Preparedness plans and mitigation interventions should be readied for quick deployment globally.\n\n\nFunding\nHealth and Medical Research Fund (Hong Kong, China).\n\n\n","id":"PMC7159271","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Elsevier Ltd.","authors":[{"firstname":"Joseph T","surname":"Wu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Kathy","surname":"Leung","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Gabriel M","surname":"Leung","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}],"References depth 2":[{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Superspreading and the effect of individual variation on disease emergence","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Model parameters and outbreak control for SARS","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Transmission dynamics of the etiological agent of SARS in Hong Kong: impact of public health interventions","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Transmission dynamics and control of severe acute respiratory syndrome","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Transmission characteristics of MERS and SARS in the healthcare setting: a comparative study","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The role of superspreading in Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus (MERS-CoV) transmission","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Unraveling the drivers of MERS-CoV transmission","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"MERS transmission and risk factors: a systematic review","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Clinical impact of human coronaviruses 229E and OC43 infection in diverse adult populations","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Epidemiology characteristics of human coronaviruses in patients with respiratory infection symptoms and phylogenetic analysis of HCoV-OC43 during 2010-2015 in Guangzhou","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Epidemiology and clinical presentations of the four human coronaviruses 229E, HKU1, NL63, and OC43 detected over 3 years using a novel multiplex real-time PCR method","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The epidemiology of severe acute respiratory syndrome in the 2003 Hong Kong epidemic: an analysis of all 1755 patients","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"A comparative epidemiologic analysis of SARS in Hong Kong, Beijing and Taiwan","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Comparison of incubation period distribution of human infections with MERS-CoV in South Korea and Saudi Arabia","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Complete genomic sequence of human coronavirus OC43: molecular clock analysis suggests a relatively recent zoonotic coronavirus transmission event","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Incubation periods of acute respiratory viral infections: a systematic review","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Preliminary epidemiological assessment of MERS-CoV outbreak in South Korea, May to June 2015","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Seroprevalence of IgG antibodies to SARS-coronavirus in asymptomatic or subclinical population groups","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1155/2019/1386740","date":"2018-12-27","title":"Comparative Serological Study for the Prevalence of Anti-MERS Coronavirus Antibodies in High- and Low-Risk Groups in Qatar","abstract":"Infection with Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus (MERS-CoV) could be asymptomatic or cause mild influenza-like illness.\n Therefore, the prevalence of MERS-CoV infections in the general population could be underestimated, which necessitates active surveillance to determine the epidemiological importance of asymptomatic cases.\n The aim of this study is to evaluate the performance of various serological assays and to estimate the seroprevalence of anti-MERS-CoV antibodies in high- and low-risk groups in Qatar.\n A total of 4858 samples were screened, including 4719 samples collected from healthy blood donors (BD) over a period of five years (2012-2016), 135 samples from baseline case contacts (CC) collected from individuals in close contact with three positive PCR-confirmed patients (CP), and four samples from MERS-CoV CP.\n Initial screening using anti-MERS-CoV IgG (IgG rS1-ELISA kit) revealed ten reactive samples from BD (10/4719, 0.21%), one from CC (1/135, 0.74%), and three from CP (3/4, 75%).\n Samples from CP but not from BD were also reactive by whole-virus anti-MERS-CoV IgG (n = 3/4) and IgM (n = 1/4) indirect immunefluorescent tests (IIFT) and pseudoparticle neutralization test (ppNT).\n The reactive sample from CC was also confirmed by ppNT.\n Surprisingly, one out of thirteen (7.7%) randomly selected IgG rS1-ELISA-negative BD samples from the initial screening was reactive by the IgM-IIFT (but not by the IgG-IIFT) and was subsequently confirmed by ppNT.\n All IgG rS1-ELISA-reactive samples from BD exhibited considerable reactivity to the four circulating human coronaviruses (HKU1, OC43, 229E, and NL63).\n Cross-reactivity with SARS was only reported for samples from CP using IgG and IgM-IIFT.\n In conclusion, we report a low prevalence of anti-MERS antibodies in the general population, which coincides with the low number of all reported cases by the time of our study (2017) in Qatar (n = 21).\n The false-positive results and the observed cross-reactivity between MERS-CoV and other circulating human coronavirus necessitate more detailed evaluation of available serological assays.\n","id":"PMC6398027","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Hindawi","authors":[{"firstname":"Reham A.","surname":"Al Kahlout","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Gheyath K.","surname":"Nasrallah","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Elmoubasher A.","surname":"Farag","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Lingshu","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Erik","surname":"Lattwein","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Marcel A.","surname":"Mller","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Mohamed E.","surname":"El Zowalaty","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hamad E.","surname":"Al Romaihi","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hamad E.","surname":"Al Romaihi","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Barney S.","surname":"Graham","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Asmaa A.","surname":"Al Thani","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hadi M.","surname":"Yassine","email":"hyassine@qu.edu.qa","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus (MERS-CoV) neutralising antibodies in a high-risk human population, Morocco, November 2017 to January 2018","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Development and application of an enzyme immunoassay for coronavirus OC43 antibody in acute respiratory illness","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Examination of seroprevalence of coronavirus HKU1 infection with S protein-based ELISA and neutralization assay against viral spike pseudotyped virus","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Middle East respiratory syndrome: what we learned from the 2015 outbreak in the Republic of Korea","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"An outbreak of human coronavirus OC43 infection and serological cross-reactivity with SARS coronavirus","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Human coronavirus alone or in co-infection with rhinovirus C is a risk factor for severe respiratory disease and admission to the pediatric intensive care unit: a one-year study in Southeast Brazil","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Case fatality of SARS in mainland China and associated risk factors","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Interhuman transmissibility of Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus: estimation of pandemic risk","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus: quantification of the extent of the epidemic, surveillance biases, and transmissibility","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The SARS epidemic in Hong Kong: what lessons have we learned?","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"SARS in healthcare facilities, Toronto and Taiwan","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Wuhan is expected to send 15 million passengers during Spring Festival in 2020 (in Chinese)","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"An outbreak of NCIP (2019-nCoV) infection in China:Wuhan, Hubei Province, 2019-2020","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1056/NEJMoa2001316","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Early Transmission Dynamics in Wuhan, China, of Novel CoronavirusInfected Pneumonia","abstract":"Background\nThe initial cases of novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV)infected pneumonia (NCIP) occurred in Wuhan, Hubei Province, China, in December 2019 and January 2020. We analyzed data on the first 425 confirmed cases in Wuhan to determine the epidemiologic characteristics of NCIP.\n\n\nMethods\nWe collected information on demographic characteristics, exposure history, and illness timelines of laboratory-confirmed cases of NCIP that had been reported by January 22, 2020. We described characteristics of the cases and estimated the key epidemiologic time-delay distributions.\n\n In the early period of exponential growth, we estimated the epidemic doubling time and the basic reproductive number.\n\n\nResults\nAmong the first 425 patients with confirmed NCIP, the median age was 59 years and 56% were male.\n\n The majority of cases (55%) with onset before January 1, 2020, were linked to the Huanan Seafood Wholesale Market, as compared with 8.6% of the subsequent cases.\n\n The mean incubation period was 5.2 days (95% confidence interval [CI], 4.1 to 7.0), with the 95th percentile of the distribution at 12.5 days.\n\n In its early stages, the epidemic doubled in size every 7.4 days.\n\n With a mean serial interval of 7.5 days (95% CI, 5.3 to 19), the basic reproductive number was estimated to be 2.2 (95% CI, 1.4 to 3.9).\n\n\nConclusions\nOn the basis of this information, there is evidence that human-to-human transmission has occurred among close contacts since the middle of December 2019. Considerable efforts to reduce transmission will be required to control outbreaks if similar dynamics apply elsewhere.\n\n Measures to prevent or reduce transmission should be implemented in populations at risk.\n\n (Funded by the Ministry of Science and Technology of China and others.\n\n)\n","id":"PMC7121484","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Massachusetts Medical Society","authors":[{"firstname":"Qun","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xuhua","surname":"Guan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Peng","surname":"Wu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xiaoye","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Lei","surname":"Zhou","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yeqing","surname":"Tong","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ruiqi","surname":"Ren","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Kathy S.M.","surname":"Leung","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Eric H.Y.","surname":"Lau","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jessica Y.","surname":"Wong","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xuesen","surname":"Xing","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Nijuan","surname":"Xiang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yang","surname":"Wu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Chao","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Qi","surname":"Chen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Dan","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Tian","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jing","surname":"Zhao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Man","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Wenxiao","surname":"Tu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Chuding","surname":"Chen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Lianmei","surname":"Jin","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Rui","surname":"Yang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Qi","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Suhua","surname":"Zhou","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Rui","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hui","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yinbo","surname":"Luo","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yuan","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ge","surname":"Shao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Huan","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zhongfa","surname":"Tao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yang","surname":"Yang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zhiqiang","surname":"Deng","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Boxi","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zhitao","surname":"Ma","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yanping","surname":"Zhang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Guoqing","surname":"Shi","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Tommy T.Y.","surname":"Lam","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Joseph T.","surname":"Wu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"George F.","surname":"Gao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Benjamin J.","surname":"Cowling","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Bo","surname":"Yang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Bo","surname":"Yang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Gabriel M.","surname":"Leung","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zijian","surname":"Feng","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Characterizing the dynamics underlying global spread of epidemics","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The effect of public health measures on the 1918 influenza pandemic in U.S. cities","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Frequently asked questions about SARS","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Real-time epidemic forecasting: challenges and opportunities","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Outbreak analytics: a developing data science for informing the response to emerging pathogens","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Improving the evidence base for decision making during a pandemic: the example of 2009 influenza A/H1N1","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"MRC Centre for Global Infectious Disease Analysis: Wuhan coronavirus reports 1-3","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1101/2020.01.23.20018549","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Novel coronavirus 2019-nCoV: early estimation of epidemiological parameters and epidemic predictions","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1101/2020.01.25.919787","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Transmission dynamics of 2019 novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV)","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1101/2020.01.23.916395","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Preliminary estimation of the basic reproduction number of novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV) in China, from 2019 to 2020: a data-driven analysis in the early phase of the outbreak","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Announcement of the State Administration of Market Supervision, Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Affairs, and the National Forestry and Grass Bureau on banning wildlife trading (in Chinese)","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]}]},{"doi":"10.1016/S1473-3099(20)30230-9","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Evolving epidemiology and transmission dynamics of coronavirus disease 2019 outside Hubei province, China: a descriptive and modelling study","abstract":"Background\nThe coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) epidemic, caused by severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2), began in Wuhan city, Hubei province, in December, 2019, and has spread throughout China.\n\n Understanding the evolving epidemiology and transmission dynamics of the outbreak beyond Hubei would provide timely information to guide intervention policy.\n\n\nMethods\nWe collected individual information from official public sources on laboratory-confirmed cases reported outside Hubei in mainland China for the period of Jan 19 to Feb 17, 2020. We used the date of the fourth revision of the case definition (Jan 27) to divide the epidemic into two time periods (Dec 24 to Jan 27, and Jan 28 to Feb 17) as the date of symptom onset.\n\n We estimated trends in the demographic characteristics of cases and key time-to-event intervals.\n\n We used a Bayesian approach to estimate the dynamics of the net reproduction number (Rt) at the provincial level.\n\n\nFindings\nWe collected data on 8579 cases from 30 provinces.\n\n The median age of cases was 44 years (3356), with an increasing proportion of cases in younger age groups and in elderly people (ie, aged &gt;64 years) as the epidemic progressed.\n\n The mean time from symptom onset to hospital admission decreased from 44 days (95% CI 00140) for the period of Dec 24 to Jan 27, to 26 days (0090) for the period of Jan 28 to Feb 17. The mean incubation period for the entire period was estimated at 52 days (18124) and the mean serial interval at 51 days (13116).\n\n The epidemic dynamics in provinces outside Hubei were highly variable but consistently included a mixture of case importations and local transmission.\n\n We estimated that the epidemic was self-sustained for less than 3 weeks, with mean Rt reaching peaks between 108 (95% CI 074154) in Shenzhen city of Guangdong province and 171 (132217) in Shandong province.\n\n In all the locations for which we had sufficient data coverage of Rt, Rt was estimated to be below the epidemic threshold (ie, &lt;1) after Jan 30.\nInterpretation\nOur estimates of the incubation period and serial interval were similar, suggesting an early peak of infectiousness, with possible transmission before the onset of symptoms.\n\n Our results also indicate that, as the epidemic progressed, infectious individuals were isolated more quickly, thus shortening the window of transmission in the community.\n\n Overall, our findings indicate that strict containment measures, movement restrictions, and increased awareness of the population might have contributed to interrupt local transmission of SARS-CoV-2 outside Hubei province.\n\n\nFunding\nNational Science Fund for Distinguished Young Scholars, National Institute of General Medical Sciences, and European Commission Horizon 2020.\n","id":"PMC7269887","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Elsevier Ltd.","authors":[{"firstname":"Juanjuan","surname":"Zhang","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Maria","surname":"Litvinova","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Wei","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yan","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xiaowei","surname":"Deng","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Xinghui","surname":"Chen","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Mei","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Wen","surname":"Zheng","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Lan","surname":"Yi","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Xinhua","surname":"Chen","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Qianhui","surname":"Wu","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Yuxia","surname":"Liang","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Xiling","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Juan","surname":"Yang","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Kaiyuan","surname":"Sun","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ira M","surname":"Longini","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"M Elizabeth","surname":"Halloran","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Peng","surname":"Wu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Benjamin J","surname":"Cowling","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Stefano","surname":"Merler","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Cecile","surname":"Viboud","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Alessandro","surname":"Vespignani","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Marco","surname":"Ajelli","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hongjie","surname":"Yu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}],"References depth 2":[{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Epidemic update and risk assessment of 2019 novel coronavirus 2020","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Update on COVID-19 as of 24:00 on March 10, 2020","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) situation report-47","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Statement on the second meeting of the International Health Regulations (2005) Emergency Committee regarding the outbreak of novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV)","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1056/NEJMoa2001316","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Early Transmission Dynamics in Wuhan, China, of Novel CoronavirusInfected Pneumonia","abstract":"Background\nThe initial cases of novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV)infected pneumonia (NCIP) occurred in Wuhan, Hubei Province, China, in December 2019 and January 2020. We analyzed data on the first 425 confirmed cases in Wuhan to determine the epidemiologic characteristics of NCIP.\n\n\nMethods\nWe collected information on demographic characteristics, exposure history, and illness timelines of laboratory-confirmed cases of NCIP that had been reported by January 22, 2020. We described characteristics of the cases and estimated the key epidemiologic time-delay distributions.\n\n In the early period of exponential growth, we estimated the epidemic doubling time and the basic reproductive number.\n\n\nResults\nAmong the first 425 patients with confirmed NCIP, the median age was 59 years and 56% were male.\n\n The majority of cases (55%) with onset before January 1, 2020, were linked to the Huanan Seafood Wholesale Market, as compared with 8.6% of the subsequent cases.\n\n The mean incubation period was 5.2 days (95% confidence interval [CI], 4.1 to 7.0), with the 95th percentile of the distribution at 12.5 days.\n\n In its early stages, the epidemic doubled in size every 7.4 days.\n\n With a mean serial interval of 7.5 days (95% CI, 5.3 to 19), the basic reproductive number was estimated to be 2.2 (95% CI, 1.4 to 3.9).\n\n\nConclusions\nOn the basis of this information, there is evidence that human-to-human transmission has occurred among close contacts since the middle of December 2019. Considerable efforts to reduce transmission will be required to control outbreaks if similar dynamics apply elsewhere.\n\n Measures to prevent or reduce transmission should be implemented in populations at risk.\n\n (Funded by the Ministry of Science and Technology of China and others.\n\n)\n","id":"PMC7121484","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Massachusetts Medical Society","authors":[{"firstname":"Qun","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xuhua","surname":"Guan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Peng","surname":"Wu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xiaoye","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Lei","surname":"Zhou","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yeqing","surname":"Tong","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ruiqi","surname":"Ren","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Kathy S.M.","surname":"Leung","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Eric H.Y.","surname":"Lau","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jessica Y.","surname":"Wong","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xuesen","surname":"Xing","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Nijuan","surname":"Xiang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yang","surname":"Wu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Chao","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Qi","surname":"Chen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Dan","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Tian","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jing","surname":"Zhao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Man","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Wenxiao","surname":"Tu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Chuding","surname":"Chen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Lianmei","surname":"Jin","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Rui","surname":"Yang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Qi","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Suhua","surname":"Zhou","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Rui","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hui","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yinbo","surname":"Luo","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yuan","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ge","surname":"Shao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Huan","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zhongfa","surname":"Tao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yang","surname":"Yang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zhiqiang","surname":"Deng","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Boxi","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zhitao","surname":"Ma","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yanping","surname":"Zhang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Guoqing","surname":"Shi","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Tommy T.Y.","surname":"Lam","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Joseph T.","surname":"Wu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"George F.","surname":"Gao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Benjamin J.","surname":"Cowling","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Bo","surname":"Yang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Bo","surname":"Yang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Gabriel M.","surname":"Leung","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zijian","surname":"Feng","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The epidemiological characteristics of an outbreak of 2019 novel coronavirus diseases (COVID-19):China, 2020","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Diagnosis and treatment guideline on pneumonia infection with 2019 novel coronavirus (5th trial edn)","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"How generation intervals shape the relationship between growth rates and reproductive numbers","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Ebola virus disease in West Africa:the first 9 months of the epidemic and forward projections","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Measurability of the epidemic reproduction number in data-driven contact networks","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Improved inference of time-varying reproduction numbers during infectious disease outbreaks","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Epidemiological and clinical characteristics of 99 cases of 2019 novel coronavirus pneumonia in Wuhan, China: a descriptive study","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"China census in 2018","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Notice on the postponement of the spring semester of 2020","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Reactive school closure weakens the network of social interactions and reduces the spread of influenza","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1101/2020.03.19.20039107","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Age profile of susceptibility, mixing, and social distancing shape the dynamics of the novel coronavirus disease 2019 outbreak in China","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Clinical features of patients infected with 2019 novel coronavirus in Wuhan, China","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Real-time tentative assessment of the epidemiological characteristics of novel coronavirus infections in Wuhan, China, as at 22 January 2020","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.2807/1560-7917.ES.2020.25.5.2000062","date":"2020-02-06","title":"Incubation period of 2019 novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV) infections among travellers from Wuhan, China, 2028 January 2020","abstract":"A novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV) is causing an outbreak of viral pneumonia that started in Wuhan, China.\n Using the travel history and symptom onset of 88 confirmed cases that were detected outside Wuhan in the early outbreak phase, we estimate the mean incubation period to be 6.4 days (95% credible interval: 5.67.7), ranging from 2.1 to 11.1 days (2.5th to 97.5th percentile).\n These values should help inform 2019-nCoV case definitions and appropriate quarantine durations.\n","id":"PMC7014672","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC)","authors":[{"firstname":"Jantien A","surname":"Backer","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Don","surname":"Klinkenberg","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Don","surname":"Klinkenberg","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jacco","surname":"Wallinga","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jacco","surname":"Wallinga","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Incubation period and other epidemiological characteristics of 2019 novel coronavirus infections with right truncation: a statistical analysis of publicly available case data","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.7326/M20-0504","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The Incubation Period of Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) From Publicly Reported Confirmed Cases: Estimation and Application","abstract":"Background:\nA novel human coronavirus, severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2), was identified in China in December 2019. There is limited support for many of its key epidemiologic features, including the incubation period for clinical disease (coronavirus disease 2019 [COVID-19]), which has important implications for surveillance and control activities.\n\n\nObjective:\nTo estimate the length of the incubation period of COVID-19 and describe its public health implications.\n\n\nDesign:\nPooled analysis of confirmed COVID-19 cases reported between 4 January 2020 and 24 February 2020.\nSetting:\nNews reports and press releases from 50 provinces, regions, and countries outside Wuhan, Hubei province, China.\n\n\nParticipants:\nPersons with confirmed SARS-CoV-2 infection outside Hubei province, China.\n\n\nMeasurements:\nPatient demographic characteristics and dates and times of possible exposure, symptom onset, fever onset, and hospitalization.\n\n\nResults:\nThere were 181 confirmed cases with identifiable exposure and symptom onset windows to estimate the incubation period of COVID-19. The median incubation period was estimated to be 5.1 days (95% CI, 4.5 to 5.8 days), and 97.5% of those who develop symptoms will do so within 11.5 days (CI, 8.2 to 15.6 days) of infection.\n\n These estimates imply that, under conservative assumptions, 101 out of every 10000 cases (99th percentile, 482) will develop symptoms after 14 days of active monitoring or quarantine.\n\n\nLimitation:\nPublicly reported cases may overrepresent severe cases, the incubation period for which may differ from that of mild cases.\n\n\nConclusion:\nThis work provides additional evidence for a median incubation period for COVID-19 of approximately 5 days, similar to SARS.\n\n Our results support current proposals for the length of quarantine or active monitoring of persons potentially exposed to SARS-CoV-2, although longer monitoring periods might be justified in extreme cases.\n\n\nPrimary Funding Source:\nU.\n\nS.\n\n Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, National Institute of General Medical Sciences, and Alexander von Humboldt Foundation.\n\n\n","id":"PMC7081172","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"American College of Physicians","authors":[{"firstname":"Stephen A.","surname":"Lauer","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Kyra H.","surname":"Grantz","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Qifang","surname":"Bi","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Forrest K.","surname":"Jones","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Qulu","surname":"Zheng","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hannah R.","surname":"Meredith","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Andrew S.","surname":"Azman","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Nicholas G.","surname":"Reich","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Justin","surname":"Lessler","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1056/NEJMoa2002032","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Clinical Characteristics of Coronavirus Disease 2019 in China","abstract":"Background\nSince December 2019, when coronavirus disease 2019 (Covid-19) emerged in Wuhan city and rapidly spread throughout China, data have been needed on the clinical characteristics of the affected patients.\n\n\nMethods\nWe extracted data regarding 1099 patients with laboratory-confirmed Covid-19 from 552 hospitals in 30 provinces, autonomous regions, and municipalities in mainland China through January 29, 2020. The primary composite end point was admission to an intensive care unit (ICU), the use of mechanical ventilation, or death.\n\n\nResults\nThe median age of the patients was 47 years; 41.9% of the patients were female.\n\n The primary composite end point occurred in 67 patients (6.1%), including 5.0% who were admitted to the ICU, 2.3% who underwent invasive mechanical ventilation, and 1.4% who died.\n\n Only 1.9% of the patients had a history of direct contact with wildlife.\n\n Among nonresidents of Wuhan, 72.3% had contact with residents of Wuhan, including 31.3% who had visited the city.\n\n The most common symptoms were fever (43.8% on admission and 88.7% during hospitalization) and cough (67.8%).\n\n Diarrhea was uncommon (3.8%).\n\n The median incubation period was 4 days (interquartile range, 2 to 7).\n\n On admission, ground-glass opacity was the most common radiologic finding on chest computed tomography (CT) (56.4%).\n\n No radiographic or CT abnormality was found in 157 of 877 patients (17.9%) with nonsevere disease and in 5 of 173 patients (2.9%) with severe disease.\n\n Lymphocytopenia was present in 83.2% of the patients on admission.\n\n\nConclusions\nDuring the first 2 months of the current outbreak, Covid-19 spread rapidly throughout China and caused varying degrees of illness.\n\n Patients often presented without fever, and many did not have abnormal radiologic findings.\n\n (Funded by the National Health Commission of China and others.\n\n)\n","id":"PMC7092819","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Massachusetts Medical Society","authors":[{"firstname":"Wei-jie","surname":"Guan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zheng-yi","surname":"Ni","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zheng-yi","surname":"Ni","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yu","surname":"Hu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Wen-hua","surname":"Liang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Chun-quan","surname":"Ou","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jian-xing","surname":"He","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Lei","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hong","surname":"Shan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Chun-liang","surname":"Lei","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"David S.C.","surname":"Hui","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Bin","surname":"Du","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Lan-juan","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Guang","surname":"Zeng","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Kwok-Yung","surname":"Yuen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ru-chong","surname":"Chen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Chun-li","surname":"Tang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Tao","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ping-yan","surname":"Chen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jie","surname":"Xiang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Shi-yue","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jin-lin","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zi-jing","surname":"Liang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yi-xiang","surname":"Peng","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Li","surname":"Wei","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yong","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ya-hua","surname":"Hu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Peng","surname":"Peng","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jian-ming","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ji-yang","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zhong","surname":"Chen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Gang","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zhi-jian","surname":"Zheng","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Shao-qin","surname":"Qiu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jie","surname":"Luo","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Chang-jiang","surname":"Ye","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Shao-yong","surname":"Zhu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Nan-shan","surname":"Zhong","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1016/j.jinf.2020.02.018","date":"2020-02-21","title":"Characteristics of COVID-19 infection in Beijing","abstract":"Background\nSince the first case of a novel coronavirus (COVID-19) infection pneumonia was detected in Wuhan, China, a series of confirmed cases of the COVID-19 were found in Beijing.\n\n We analyzed the data of 262 confirmed cases to determine the clinical and epidemiological characteristics of COVID-19 in Beijing.\n\n\nMethods\nWe collected patients who were transferred by Beijing Emergency Medical Service to the designated hospitals.\n\n The information on demographic, epidemiological, clinical, laboratory test for the COVID-19 virus, diagnostic classification, cluster case and outcome were obtained.\n\n Furthermore we compared the characteristics between severe and common confirmed cases which including mild cases, no-pneumonia cases and asymptomatic cases, and we also compared the features between COVID-19 and 2003 SARS.\n\n\nFindings\nBy Feb 10, 2020, 262 patients were transferred from the hospitals across Beijing to the designated hospitals for special treatment of the COVID-19 infected by Beijing emergency medical service.\n\n Among of 262 patients, 46 (17.6%) were severe cases, 216 (82.4%) were common cases, which including 192 (73.3%) mild cases, 11(4.2%) non-pneumonia cases and 13 (5.0%) asymptomatic cases respectively.\n\n The median age of patients was 47.5 years old and 48.5% were male.\n\n 192 (73.3%) patients were residents of Beijing, 50 (26.0%) of which had been to Wuhan, 116 (60.4%) had close contact with confirmed cases, 21 (10.9%) had no contact history.\n\n The most common symptoms at the onset of illness were fever (82.1%), cough (45.8%), fatigue (26.3%), dyspnea (6.9%) and headache (6.5%).\n\n The median incubation period was 6.7 days, the interval time from between illness onset and seeing a doctor was 4.5 days.\n\n As of Feb 10, 17.2% patients have discharged and 81.7% patients remain in hospital in our study, the fatality of COVID-19 infection in Beijing was 0.9%.\n\n\nInterpretation\nOn the basis of this study, we provided the ratio of the COVID-19 infection on the severe cases to the mild, asymptomatic and non-pneumonia cases in Beijing.\n\n Population was generally susceptible, and with a relatively low fatality rate.\n\n The measures to prevent transmission was very successful at early stage, the next steps on the COVID-19 infection should be focused on early isolation of patients and quarantine for close contacts in families and communities in Beijing.\n\n\nFunding\nBeijing Municipal Science and Technology Commission and Ministry of Science and Technology.\n\n\n","id":"PMC7102527","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"The British Infection Association. Published by Elsevier Ltd.","authors":[{"firstname":"Sijia","surname":"Tian","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Nan","surname":"Hu","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jing","surname":"Lou","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Kun","surname":"Chen","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Xuqin","surname":"Kang","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Zhenjun","surname":"Xiang","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Hui","surname":"Chen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Dali","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ning","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Dong","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Gang","surname":"Chen","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Yongliang","surname":"Zhang","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Dou","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jianren","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Huixin","surname":"Lian","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Shengmei","surname":"Niu","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Luxi","surname":"Zhang","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jinjun","surname":"Zhang","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Effects of school closures, 2008 winter influenza season, Hong Kong","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Notice on extending the spring festival holiday of 2020","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1093/infdis/jiaa077","date":"2020-02-15","title":"A Familial Cluster of Infection Associated With the 2019 Novel Coronavirus Indicating Possible Person-to-Person Transmission During the Incubation Period","abstract":"An ongoing outbreak of pneumonia associated with 2019 novel coronavirus was reported in China.\n It is unclear whether the virus is infective exists during the incubation period, although person-to-person transmission has been reported elsewhere.\n We report the epidemiological features of a familial cluster of 4 patients in Shanghai, including an 88-year-old man with limited mobility who was exposed only to asymptomatic family members whose symptoms developed later.\n The epidemiological evidence has shown possible transmission of 2019 novel coronavirus during the incubation period.\n","id":"PMC7107453","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Oxford University Press","authors":[{"firstname":"Ping","surname":"Yu","email":"jxcdcyp@126.com","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jiang","surname":"Zhu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zhengdong","surname":"Zhang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yingjun","surname":"Han","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.1056/NEJMc2001737","date":"1970-01-01","title":"SARS-CoV-2 Viral Load in Upper Respiratory Specimens of Infected Patients","abstract":"","id":"PMC7121626","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Massachusetts Medical Society","authors":[{"firstname":"Lirong","surname":"Zou","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Feng","surname":"Ruan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Feng","surname":"Ruan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Mingxing","surname":"Huang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Mingxing","surname":"Huang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Lijun","surname":"Liang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Lijun","surname":"Liang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Huitao","surname":"Huang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Huitao","surname":"Huang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zhongsi","surname":"Hong","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zhongsi","surname":"Hong","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jianxiang","surname":"Yu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jianxiang","surname":"Yu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Min","surname":"Kang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yingchao","surname":"Song","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jinyu","surname":"Xia","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jinyu","surname":"Xia","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Qianfang","surname":"Guo","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Qianfang","surname":"Guo","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Tie","surname":"Song","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jianfeng","surname":"He","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hui-Ling","surname":"Yen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hui-Ling","surname":"Yen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Malik","surname":"Peiris","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jie","surname":"Wu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jie","surname":"Wu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1101/2020.02.21.20026559","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Estimating the serial interval of the novel coronavirus disease (COVID-19): a statistical analysis using the public data in Hong Kong from January 16 to February 15, 2020","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.3201/eid2605.200198","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Potential Presymptomatic Transmission of SARS-CoV-2, Zhejiang Province, China, 2020","abstract":"We report a 2-family cluster of persons infected with severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 in the city of Zhoushan, Zhejiang Province, China, during January 2020. The infections resulted from contact with an infected but potentially presymptomatic traveler from the city of Wuhan in Hubei Province.\n","id":"PMC7181913","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Centers for Disease Control and Prevention","authors":[{"firstname":"Zhen-Dong","surname":"Tong","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"An","surname":"Tang","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ke-Feng","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Peng","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Hong-Ling","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jing-Ping","surname":"Yi","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Yong-Li","surname":"Zhang","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jian-Bo","surname":"Yan","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.1101/2020.02.19.20025452","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The serial interval of COVID-19 from publicly reported confirmed cases","abstract":"id='P2'>We estimate the distribution of serial intervals for 468 confirmed cases of COVID-19 reported in 93 Chinese cities by February 8, 2020. The mean and standard deviation are 3.96 (95% CI 3.534.39) and 4.75 (95% CI 4.465.07) days, respectively, with 12.6% of reports indicating pre-symptomatic transmission.\n","id":"PMC7239082","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory","authors":[{"firstname":"Zhanwei","surname":"Du","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xiaoke","surname":"Xu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ye","surname":"Wu","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Lin","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Benjamin J.","surname":"Cowling","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Lauren Ancel","surname":"Meyers","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1101/2020.03.03.20029983","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Transmission interval estimates suggest pre-symptomatic spread of COVID-19","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/S1473-3099(20)30144-4","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Early dynamics of transmission and control of COVID-19: a mathematical modelling study","abstract":"Background\nAn outbreak of severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) has led to 95?333 confirmed cases as of March 5, 2020. Understanding the early transmission dynamics of the infection and evaluating the effectiveness of control measures is crucial for assessing the potential for sustained transmission to occur in new areas.\n\n Combining a mathematical model of severe SARS-CoV-2 transmission with four datasets from within and outside Wuhan, we estimated how transmission in Wuhan varied between December, 2019, and February, 2020. We used these estimates to assess the potential for sustained human-to-human transmission to occur in locations outside Wuhan if cases were introduced.\n\n\nMethods\nWe combined a stochastic transmission model with data on cases of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) in Wuhan and international cases that originated in Wuhan to estimate how transmission had varied over time during January, 2020, and February, 2020. Based on these estimates, we then calculated the probability that newly introduced cases might generate outbreaks in other areas.\n\n To estimate the early dynamics of transmission in Wuhan, we fitted a stochastic transmission dynamic model to multiple publicly available datasets on cases in Wuhan and internationally exported cases from Wuhan.\n\n The four datasets we fitted to were: daily number of new internationally exported cases (or lack thereof), by date of onset, as of Jan 26, 2020; daily number of new cases in Wuhan with no market exposure, by date of onset, between Dec 1, 2019, and Jan 1, 2020; daily number of new cases in China, by date of onset, between Dec 29, 2019, and Jan 23, 2020; and proportion of infected passengers on evacuation flights between Jan 29, 2020, and Feb 4, 2020. We used an additional two datasets for comparison with model outputs: daily number of new exported cases from Wuhan (or lack thereof) in countries with high connectivity to Wuhan (ie, top 20 most at-risk countries), by date of confirmation, as of Feb 10, 2020; and data on new confirmed cases reported in Wuhan between Jan 16, 2020, and Feb 11, 2020.\nFindings\nWe estimated that the median daily reproduction number (Rt) in Wuhan declined from 235 (95% CI 115477) 1 week before travel restrictions were introduced on Jan 23, 2020, to 105 (041239) 1 week after.\n\n Based on our estimates of Rt, assuming SARS-like variation, we calculated that in locations with similar transmission potential to Wuhan in early January, once there are at least four independently introduced cases, there is a more than 50% chance the infection will establish within that population.\n\n\nInterpretation\nOur results show that COVID-19 transmission probably declined in Wuhan during late January, 2020, coinciding with the introduction of travel control measures.\n\n As more cases arrive in international locations with similar transmission potential to Wuhan before these control measures, it is likely many chains of transmission will fail to establish initially, but might lead to new outbreaks eventually.\n\n\nFunding\nWellcome Trust, Health Data Research UK, Bill &amp; Melinda Gates Foundation, and National Institute for Health Research.\n\n\n","id":"PMC7158569","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Elsevier Science ;, The Lancet Pub. Group","authors":[{"firstname":"Adam J","surname":"Kucharski","email":"adam.kucharski@lshtm.ac.uk","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Timothy W","surname":"Russell","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Charlie","surname":"Diamond","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yang","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"John","surname":"Edmunds","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Sebastian","surname":"Funk","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Rosalind M","surname":"Eggo","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Fiona","surname":"Sun","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Mark","surname":"Jit","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"James D","surname":"Munday","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Nicholas","surname":"Davies","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Amy","surname":"Gimma","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Kevin","surname":"van Zandvoort","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hamish","surname":"Gibbs","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Joel","surname":"Hellewell","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Christopher I","surname":"Jarvis","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Sam","surname":"Clifford","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Billy J","surname":"Quilty","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Nikos I","surname":"Bosse","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Sam","surname":"Abbott","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Petra","surname":"Klepac","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Stefan","surname":"Flasche","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1101/2020.02.20.20025866","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Estimating the asymptomatic proportion of 2019 novel coronavirus onboard the Princess Cruises ship, 2020","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1001/jama.2020.2565","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Presumed asymptomatic carrier transmission of COVID-19","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Inclusion of 2019 novel coronavirus diseases (COVID-19) into statutory infectious disease management","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"WHO chief praises containment efforts","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"COVID-19 Dashboard by the Center for Systems Science and Engineering (CSSE) at Johns Hopkins University &amp; Medicine","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Country &amp; Technical Guidance - Coronavirus disease (COVID-19)","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Updated WHO recommendations for international traffic in relation to COVID-19 outbreak","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/s0140-6736(20)30567-5","date":"1970-01-01","title":"How will country-based mitigation measures influence the course of the COVID-19 epidemic?","abstract":"","id":"PMC7158572","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Elsevier Ltd.","authors":[{"firstname":"Roy M","surname":"Anderson","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hans","surname":"Heesterbeek","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Don","surname":"Klinkenberg","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"T Dirdre","surname":"Hollingsworth","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}],"References depth 2":[{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) situation report:44","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"News / COVID-19:report 3: transmissibility of 2019-nCoV. 2020","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Factors that make an infectious disease outbreak controllable","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Coronavirus disease (COVID-2019) situation report:30","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Heterogeneity in estimates of the impact of influenza on population mortality: a systematic review","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1056/NEJMoa2001316","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Early Transmission Dynamics in Wuhan, China, of Novel CoronavirusInfected Pneumonia","abstract":"Background\nThe initial cases of novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV)infected pneumonia (NCIP) occurred in Wuhan, Hubei Province, China, in December 2019 and January 2020. We analyzed data on the first 425 confirmed cases in Wuhan to determine the epidemiologic characteristics of NCIP.\n\n\nMethods\nWe collected information on demographic characteristics, exposure history, and illness timelines of laboratory-confirmed cases of NCIP that had been reported by January 22, 2020. We described characteristics of the cases and estimated the key epidemiologic time-delay distributions.\n\n In the early period of exponential growth, we estimated the epidemic doubling time and the basic reproductive number.\n\n\nResults\nAmong the first 425 patients with confirmed NCIP, the median age was 59 years and 56% were male.\n\n The majority of cases (55%) with onset before January 1, 2020, were linked to the Huanan Seafood Wholesale Market, as compared with 8.6% of the subsequent cases.\n\n The mean incubation period was 5.2 days (95% confidence interval [CI], 4.1 to 7.0), with the 95th percentile of the distribution at 12.5 days.\n\n In its early stages, the epidemic doubled in size every 7.4 days.\n\n With a mean serial interval of 7.5 days (95% CI, 5.3 to 19), the basic reproductive number was estimated to be 2.2 (95% CI, 1.4 to 3.9).\n\n\nConclusions\nOn the basis of this information, there is evidence that human-to-human transmission has occurred among close contacts since the middle of December 2019. Considerable efforts to reduce transmission will be required to control outbreaks if similar dynamics apply elsewhere.\n\n Measures to prevent or reduce transmission should be implemented in populations at risk.\n\n (Funded by the Ministry of Science and Technology of China and others.\n\n)\n","id":"PMC7121484","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Massachusetts Medical Society","authors":[{"firstname":"Qun","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xuhua","surname":"Guan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Peng","surname":"Wu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xiaoye","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Lei","surname":"Zhou","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yeqing","surname":"Tong","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ruiqi","surname":"Ren","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Kathy S.M.","surname":"Leung","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Eric H.Y.","surname":"Lau","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jessica Y.","surname":"Wong","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xuesen","surname":"Xing","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Nijuan","surname":"Xiang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yang","surname":"Wu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Chao","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Qi","surname":"Chen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Dan","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Tian","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jing","surname":"Zhao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Man","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Wenxiao","surname":"Tu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Chuding","surname":"Chen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Lianmei","surname":"Jin","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Rui","surname":"Yang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Qi","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Suhua","surname":"Zhou","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Rui","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hui","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yinbo","surname":"Luo","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yuan","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ge","surname":"Shao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Huan","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zhongfa","surname":"Tao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yang","surname":"Yang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zhiqiang","surname":"Deng","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Boxi","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zhitao","surname":"Ma","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yanping","surname":"Zhang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Guoqing","surname":"Shi","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Tommy T.Y.","surname":"Lam","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Joseph T.","surname":"Wu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"George F.","surname":"Gao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Benjamin J.","surname":"Cowling","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Bo","surname":"Yang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Bo","surname":"Yang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Gabriel M.","surname":"Leung","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zijian","surname":"Feng","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Epidemiology, transmission dynamics and control of SARS: the 2002-2003 epidemic","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1056/NEJMc2001737","date":"1970-01-01","title":"SARS-CoV-2 Viral Load in Upper Respiratory Specimens of Infected Patients","abstract":"","id":"PMC7121626","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Massachusetts Medical Society","authors":[{"firstname":"Lirong","surname":"Zou","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Feng","surname":"Ruan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Feng","surname":"Ruan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Mingxing","surname":"Huang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Mingxing","surname":"Huang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Lijun","surname":"Liang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Lijun","surname":"Liang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Huitao","surname":"Huang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Huitao","surname":"Huang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zhongsi","surname":"Hong","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zhongsi","surname":"Hong","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jianxiang","surname":"Yu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jianxiang","surname":"Yu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Min","surname":"Kang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yingchao","surname":"Song","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jinyu","surname":"Xia","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jinyu","surname":"Xia","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Qianfang","surname":"Guo","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Qianfang","surname":"Guo","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Tie","surname":"Song","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jianfeng","surname":"He","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hui-Ling","surname":"Yen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hui-Ling","surname":"Yen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Malik","surname":"Peiris","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jie","surname":"Wu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jie","surname":"Wu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Daily risk assessment on COVID-19","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Superspreading and the effect of individual variation on disease emergence","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Will COVID-19 go away on its own in warmer weather? Center for Communicable Disease Dynamics (CCDD) at the Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Transmission parameters of the A/H1N1 (2009) influenza virus pandemic: a review","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Mitigation strategies for pandemic influenza A: balancing conflicting policy objectives","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Closure of schools during an influenza pandemic","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Coronavirus action plan","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/S2214-109X(20)30074-7","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Feasibility of controlling COVID-19 outbreaks by isolation of cases and contacts","abstract":"Background\nIsolation of cases and contact tracing is used to control outbreaks of infectious diseases, and has been used for coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19).\n\n Whether this strategy will achieve control depends on characteristics of both the pathogen and the response.\n\n Here we use a mathematical model to assess if isolation and contact tracing are able to control onwards transmission from imported cases of COVID-19.\nMethods\nWe developed a stochastic transmission model, parameterised to the COVID-19 outbreak.\n\n We used the model to quantify the potential effectiveness of contact tracing and isolation of cases at controlling a severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2)-like pathogen.\n\n We considered scenarios that varied in the number of initial cases, the basic reproduction number (R0), the delay from symptom onset to isolation, the probability that contacts were traced, the proportion of transmission that occurred before symptom onset, and the proportion of subclinical infections.\n\n We assumed isolation prevented all further transmission in the model.\n\n Outbreaks were deemed controlled if transmission ended within 12 weeks or before 5000 cases in total.\n\n We measured the success of controlling outbreaks using isolation and contact tracing, and quantified the weekly maximum number of cases traced to measure feasibility of public health effort.\n\n\nFindings\nSimulated outbreaks starting with five initial cases, an R0 of 15, and 0% transmission before symptom onset could be controlled even with low contact tracing probability; however, the probability of controlling an outbreak decreased with the number of initial cases, when R0 was 25 or 35 and with more transmission before symptom onset.\n\n Across different initial numbers of cases, the majority of scenarios with an R0 of 15 were controllable with less than 50% of contacts successfully traced.\n\n To control the majority of outbreaks, for R0 of 25 more than 70% of contacts had to be traced, and for an R0 of 35 more than 90% of contacts had to be traced.\n\n The delay between symptom onset and isolation had the largest role in determining whether an outbreak was controllable when R0 was 15. For R0 values of 25 or 35, if there were 40 initial cases, contact tracing and isolation were only potentially feasible when less than 1% of transmission occurred before symptom onset.\n\n\nInterpretation\nIn most scenarios, highly effective contact tracing and case isolation is enough to control a new outbreak of COVID-19 within 3 months.\n\n The probability of control decreases with long delays from symptom onset to isolation, fewer cases ascertained by contact tracing, and increasing transmission before symptoms.\n\n This model can be modified to reflect updated transmission characteristics and more specific definitions of outbreak control to assess the potential success of local response efforts.\n\n\nFunding\nWellcome Trust, Global Challenges Research Fund, and Health Data Research UK.\n\n\n","id":"PMC7097845","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd.","authors":[{"firstname":"Joel","surname":"Hellewell","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Sam","surname":"Abbott","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Amy","surname":"Gimma","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Nikos I","surname":"Bosse","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Christopher I","surname":"Jarvis","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Timothy W","surname":"Russell","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"James D","surname":"Munday","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Adam J","surname":"Kucharski","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"W John","surname":"Edmunds","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Fiona","surname":"Sun","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Stefan","surname":"Flasche","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Billy J","surname":"Quilty","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Nicholas","surname":"Davies","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yang","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Samuel","surname":"Clifford","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Petra","surname":"Klepac","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Mark","surname":"Jit","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Charlie","surname":"Diamond","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hamish","surname":"Gibbs","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Kevin","surname":"van Zandvoort","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Sebastian","surname":"Funk","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Sebastian","surname":"Funk","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Sebastian","surname":"Funk","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Rosalind M","surname":"Eggo","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1101/2020.02.14.20023036","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The efficacy of contact tracing for the containment of the 2019 novel coronavirus (COVID-19)","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The epidemiological characteristics of an outbreak of 2019 novel coronavirus disease (COVD-19)","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The health impact of the 2014-15 Ebola outbreak","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]}]},{"doi":"10.1093/jtm/taaa020","date":"2020-02-10","title":"Isolation, quarantine, social distancing and community containment: pivotal role for old-style public health measures in the novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV) outbreak","abstract":"Public health measures were decisive in controlling the SARS epidemic in 2003. Isolation is the separation of ill persons from non-infected persons.\n Quarantine is movement restriction, often with fever surveillance, of contacts when it is not evident whether they have been infected but are not yet symptomatic or have not been infected.\n Community containment includes measures that range from increasing social distancing to community-wide quarantine.\n Whether these measures will be sufficient to control 2019-nCoV depends on addressing some unanswered questions.\n","id":"PMC7107565","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Oxford University Press","authors":[{"firstname":"A","surname":"Wilder-Smith","email":"anneliesws@gmail.com","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"D O","surname":"Freedman","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"10.7196/samj.2020.v110i6.14847","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Quarantine alone or in combination with other public health measures to control COVID-19: A rapid Cochrane review","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[{"doi":"10.1136/bmj.m1198","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Covid-19: risk factors for severe disease and death","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"&quot;Evidence used to update the list of underlying medical conditions that increase a person's risk of severe illness from COVID-19&quot;, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/j.lfs.2020.117839","date":"2020-05-20","title":"Coronaviruses pathogenesis, comorbidities and multi-organ damage  A review","abstract":"Human coronaviruses, especially COVID-19, is an emerging pandemic infectious disease with high morbidity and mortality.\n Coronaviruses are associated with comorbidities, along with the symptoms of it.\n SARS-CoV-2 is one of the highly pathogenic coronaviruses that causes a high death rate compared to the SARS-CoV and MERS.\n In this review, we focused on the mechanism of coronavirus with comorbidities and impairment in multi-organ function.\n The main dysfunction upon coronavirus infection is damage to alveolar and acute respiratory failure.\n It is associated with the other organ damage such as cardiovascular risk via an increased level of hypertension through ACE2, gastrointestinal dysfunction, chronic kidney disease, diabetes mellitus, liver dysfunction, lung injury, CNS risk, ocular risks such as chemosis, conjunctivitis, and conjunctival hyperemia, cancer risk, venous thromboembolism, tuberculosis, aging, and cardiovascular dysfunction and reproductive risk.\n Along with this, we have discussed the immunopathology and coronaviruses at a molecular level and therapeutic approaches for the coronavirus infection.\n The comorbidities and multi-organ failure of COVID-19 have been explained at a molecular level along with the base of the SARS-CoV and MERS-CoV.\n This review would help us to understand the comorbidities associated with the coronaviruses with multi-organ damage.\n","id":"PMC7243768","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Elsevier Inc.","authors":[{"firstname":"Kaviyarasi","surname":"Renu","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Pureti Lakshmi","surname":"Prasanna","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Abilash","surname":"Valsala Gopalakrishnan","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.1001/jama.2020.6019","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Pharmacologic treatments for coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19): a review","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1007/s00330-020-07033-y","date":"2020-06-12","title":"Chest CT score in COVID-19 patients: correlation with disease severity and short-term prognosis","abstract":"Objectives\nid='Par1'>To correlate a CT-based semi-quantitative score of pulmonary involvement in COVID-19 pneumonia with clinical staging of disease and laboratory findings.\n\n We also aimed to investigate whether CT findings may be predictive of patients outcome.\n\n\nMethods\nid='Par2'>From March 6 to March 22, 2020, 130 symptomatic SARS-CoV-2 patients were enrolled for this single-center analysis and chest CT examinations were retrospectively evaluated.\n\n A semi-quantitative CT score was calculated based on the extent of lobar involvement (0:0%; 1, &lt;?5%; 2:525%; 3:2650%; 4:5175%; 5, &gt;?75%; range 05; global score 025).\n\n Data were matched with clinical stages and laboratory findings.\n\n Survival curves and univariate and multivariate analyses were performed to evaluate the role of CT score as a predictor of patients outcome.\n\n\nResults\nid='Par3'>Ground glass opacities were predominant in early-phase (??7days since symptoms onset), while crazy-paving pattern, consolidation, and fibrosis characterized late-phase disease (&gt;?7days).\n\n CT score was significantly higher in critical and severe than in mild stage (p?&lt;?0.0001), and among late-phase than early-phase patients (p?&lt;?0.0001).\n\n CT score was significantly correlated with CRP (p?&lt;?0.0001, r?=?0.6204) and D-dimer (p?&lt;?0.0001, r?=?0.6625) levels.\n\n A CT score of ??18 was associated with an increased mortality risk and was found to be predictive of death both in univariate (HR, 8.33; 95% CI, 3.1921.73; p?&lt;?0.0001) and multivariate analysis (HR, 3.74; 95% CI, 1.1012.77; p?=?0.0348).\n\n\nConclusions\nid='Par4'>Our preliminary data suggest the potential role of CT score for predicting the outcome of SARS-CoV-2 patients.\n\n CT score is highly correlated with laboratory findings and disease severity and might be beneficial to speed-up diagnostic workflow in symptomatic cases.\n\n\nKey Points\nid='Par5'>\n CT score is positively correlated with age, inflammatory biomarkers, severity of clinical categories, and disease phases.\n\n\n\n","id":"PMC7334627","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Springer Berlin Heidelberg","authors":[{"firstname":"Marco","surname":"Francone","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Franco","surname":"Iafrate","email":"francoiafrate@gmail.com","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Giorgio Maria","surname":"Masci","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Giorgio Maria","surname":"Masci","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Simona","surname":"Coco","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Francesco","surname":"Cilia","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Lucia","surname":"Manganaro","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Valeria","surname":"Panebianco","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Chiara","surname":"Andreoli","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Maria Chiara","surname":"Colaiacomo","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Maria Antonella","surname":"Zingaropoli","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Maria Rosa","surname":"Ciardi","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Claudio Maria","surname":"Mastroianni","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Francesco","surname":"Pugliese","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Francesco","surname":"Alessandri","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ombretta","surname":"Turriziani","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Paolo","surname":"Ricci","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Carlo","surname":"Catalano","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.1371/journal.pone.0237302","date":"2020-07-25","title":"Chest CT findings related to mortality of patients with COVID-19: A retrospective case-series study","abstract":"Background\nAs the current outbreak of COVID-2019 disease has spread to the other more than 150 countries besides China around the world and the death number constantly increased, the clinical data and radiological findings of death cases need to be explored so that more physicians, radiologists and researchers can gain important information to save more lives.\n\n\nMethods\n73 patients who died from COVID-19 were retrospectively included.\n\n The clinical and laboratory data of the patients were extracted from electronic medical records.\n\n The clinical data, inflammation-related laboratory results, and CT imaging features were summarized.\n\n The laboratory results and dynamic changes of imaging features and severity scores of lung involvement based on chest CT were analyzed.\n\n\nResults\nThe mean age was 6712 years.\n\n The typical clinical symptoms included fever (88%), cough (62%) and dyspnea (23%).\n\n 65% patients had at least one underlying disease.\n\n GGO with consolidation was the most common feature for the five lung lobes (47%-53% among the various lobes), with total severity score of 12.975.87 for the both lungs.\n\n The proportion of GGO with consolidation is markedly increased on follow-up chest CT compared with initial CT scans, as well as the averaging total CT scores (14.535.76 vs.\n\n 6.605.65; P&lt;0.001).\n\n The severity score was rated as severe (white lung) in 13% patients on initial CT scans, and in 60% on follow-up CT scans.\n\n Moderate positive correlations were found between CT scores and leucocytes, neutrophils and IL-2R (r = 0.4470581, P&lt;0.001).\n\n\nConclusion\nChest CT findings and laboratory test results were worsening in patients who died of COVID-19, with moderate positive correlations between CT severity scores and inflammation-related factors of leucocytes, neutrophils, and IL-2R.\n\n Chest CT imaging may play an more important role in monitoring disease progression and predicting prognosis.\n\n\n","id":"PMC7447035","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Public Library of Science","authors":[{"firstname":"Yiqi","surname":"Hu","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Chenao","surname":"Zhan","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Chengyang","surname":"Chen","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Tao","surname":"Ai","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Liming","surname":"Xia","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Muhammad","surname":"Adrish","email":"NULL","contributions":"8"},{"firstname":"Muhammad","surname":"Adrish","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Muhammad","surname":"Adrish","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Muhammad","surname":"Adrish","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Muhammad","surname":"Adrish","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Muhammad","surname":"Adrish","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Muhammad","surname":"Adrish","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Muhammad","surname":"Adrish","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1016/j.mayocp.2020.04.006","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Association Between Hypoxemia and Mortality in Patients With COVID-19","abstract":"Objective\nTo identify markers associated with in-hospital death in patients with coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19)associated pneumonia.\n\n\nPatients and Methods\nA retrospective cohort study was conducted of 140 patients with moderate to critical COVID-19associated pneumonia requiring oxygen supplementation admitted to the hospital from January 28, 2020, through February 28, 2020, and followed up through March 13, 2020, in Union Hospital, Wuhan, China.\n\n Oxygen saturation (SpO2) and other measures were tested as predictors of in-hospital mortality in survival analysis.\n\n\nResults\nOf 140 patients with COVID-19associated pneumonia, 72 (51.4%) were men, with a median age of 60 years.\n\n Patients with SpO2 values of 90% or less were older and were more likely to be men, to have hypertension, and to present with dyspnea than those with SpO2 values greater than 90%.\n\n Overall, 36 patients (25.7%) died during hospitalization after median 14-day follow-up.\n\n Higher SpO2 levels after oxygen supplementation were associated with reduced mortality independently of age and sex (hazard ratio per 1-U SpO2, 0.93; 95% CI, 0.91 to 0.95; P&lt;.\n\n001).\n\n The SpO2 cutoff value of 90.5% yielded 84.6% sensitivity and 97.2% specificity for prediction of survival.\n\n Dyspnea was also independently associated with death in multivariable analysis (hazard ratio, 2.60; 95% CI, 1.24 to 5.43; P=.\n\n01).\n\n\nConclusion\nIn this cohort of patients with COVID-19, hypoxemia was independently associated with in-hospital mortality.\n\n These results may help guide the clinical management of patients with severe COVID-19, particularly in settings requiring strategic allocation of limited critical care resources.\n\n\nTrial Registration\nChictr.\n\norg.\n\ncn Identifier: ChiCTR2000030852\n","id":"PMC7151468","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research","authors":[{"firstname":"Jiang","surname":"Xie","email":"frank782008@aliyun.com","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Naima","surname":"Covassin","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Zhengyang","surname":"Fan","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Prachi","surname":"Singh","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Wei","surname":"Gao","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Guangxi","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Tomas","surname":"Kara","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Virend K.","surname":"Somers","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.1007/s42399-020-00610-8","date":"2020-10-20","title":"Dexamethasone for the Treatment of Coronavirus Disease (COVID-19): a Review","abstract":"id='Par1'>The World Health Organization (WHO) declared COVID-19 (novel coronavirus) as a global pandemic in the middle of March 2020, after the disease spread to more than 150 countries and territories leading to tens of thousands of cases within a couple of months.\n To date, there are no effective pharmaceutical treatments available.\n As well as that, the novel vaccines have not yet been approved as establishing their efficacy will take time.\n This study aims to summarize the evidence regarding corticosteroids such as dexamethasone for the treatment of COVID-19. Electronic searches were conducted on 7 September 2020 on Google Scholar database, MEDLINE and PubMed.\n A further search was conducted on the World Health Organizations COVID-19 research article database.\n The findings of recent investigations that proved, both, the in vitro and in vivo activity of corticosteroids against COVID-19 and other coronavirus-related pneumonia were discussed.\n Low doses of corticosteroids (dexamethasone) could reduce the mortality in patients with severe COVID-19 disease; however, they had no effect on the mortality rate of those patients with a mild form of the condition.\n Moreover, the liberal use of corticosteroids was not advocated for, as high doses of the drug can cause more harm than good.\n","id":"PMC7599121","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Springer International Publishing","authors":[{"firstname":"Mukhtar H.","surname":"Ahmed","email":"ahmed-m@email.ulster.ac.uk","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Arez","surname":"Hassan","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Arez","surname":"Hassan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]}]},{"doi":"10.1126/science.abb4557","date":"2020-04-04","title":"Effective containment explains subexponential growth in recent confirmed COVID-19 cases in China","abstract":"National governments have taken different approaches in response to the coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic, ranging from draconian quarantines to laissez-faire mitigation strategies.\n In data from China collected in February 2020, Maier and Brockmann noticed that, unexpectedly, the epidemic did not take off exponentially.\n Nonexponential spread occurs when the supply of susceptible individuals is depleted on a time scale comparable to the infectious period of the virus.\n The results of the authors' modeling approach indicate that the public response to the epidemic plus containment policies were becoming effective despite the initial increase in confirmed cases.\n","id":"PMC7164388","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"American Association for the Advancement of Science","authors":[{"firstname":"Benjamin F.","surname":"Maier","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Dirk","surname":"Brockmann","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Dirk","surname":"Brockmann","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}],"References depth 2":[{"doi":"10.1126/science.abb2161","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Scientists are racing to model the next moves of a coronavirus that's still hard to predict","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"WHO, Novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV) situation report - 11 (2020).","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"WHO, Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) situation report - 51 (2020).","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"CDC, 2019 Novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV); https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/about/symptoms.html (accessed 13 February 2020).","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Here's how computer models simulate the future spread of new coronavirus","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"China's citywide quarantines: Are they ethical and effective?","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/S0140-6736(20)30211-7","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Epidemiological and clinical characteristics of 99 cases of 2019 novel coronavirus pneumonia in Wuhan, China: a descriptive study","abstract":"Background\nIn December, 2019, a pneumonia associated with the 2019 novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV) emerged in Wuhan, China.\n\n We aimed to further clarify the epidemiological and clinical characteristics of 2019-nCoV pneumonia.\n\n\nMethods\nIn this retrospective, single-centre study, we included all confirmed cases of 2019-nCoV in Wuhan Jinyintan Hospital from Jan 1 to Jan 20, 2020. Cases were confirmed by real-time RT-PCR and were analysed for epidemiological, demographic, clinical, and radiological features and laboratory data.\n\n Outcomes were followed up until Jan 25, 2020.\nFindings\nOf the 99 patients with 2019-nCoV pneumonia, 49 (49%) had a history of exposure to the Huanan seafood market.\n\n The average age of the patients was 555 years (SD 131), including 67 men and 32 women.\n\n 2019-nCoV was detected in all patients by real-time RT-PCR.\n\n 50 (51%) patients had chronic diseases.\n\n Patients had clinical manifestations of fever (82 [83%] patients), cough (81 [82%] patients), shortness of breath (31 [31%] patients), muscle ache (11 [11%] patients), confusion (nine [9%] patients), headache (eight [8%] patients), sore throat (five [5%] patients), rhinorrhoea (four [4%] patients), chest pain (two [2%] patients), diarrhoea (two [2%] patients), and nausea and vomiting (one [1%] patient).\n\n According to imaging examination, 74 (75%) patients showed bilateral pneumonia, 14 (14%) patients showed multiple mottling and ground-glass opacity, and one (1%) patient had pneumothorax.\n\n 17 (17%) patients developed acute respiratory distress syndrome and, among them, 11 (11%) patients worsened in a short period of time and died of multiple organ failure.\n\n\nInterpretation\nThe 2019-nCoV infection was of clustering onset, is more likely to affect older males with comorbidities, and can result in severe and even fatal respiratory diseases such as acute respiratory distress syndrome.\n\n In general, characteristics of patients who died were in line with the MuLBSTA score, an early warning model for predicting mortality in viral pneumonia.\n\n Further investigation is needed to explore the applicability of the MuLBSTA score in predicting the risk of mortality in 2019-nCoV infection.\n\n\nFunding\nNational Key R&amp;D Program of China.\n\n\n","id":"PMC7135076","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Elsevier Ltd.","authors":[{"firstname":"Nanshan","surname":"Chen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Min","surname":"Zhou","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xuan","surname":"Dong","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jieming","surname":"Qu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Fengyun","surname":"Gong","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yang","surname":"Han","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yang","surname":"Qiu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jingli","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ying","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yuan","surname":"Wei","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jia'an","surname":"Xia","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ting","surname":"Yu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xinxin","surname":"Zhang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Li","surname":"Zhang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1016/j.ijid.2020.01.050","date":"2020-01-27","title":"Preliminary estimation of the basic reproduction number of novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV) in China, from 2019 to 2020: A data-driven analysis in the early phase of the outbreak","abstract":"\n\n\n\nThe novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV) pneumonia has caused 2033 confirmed cases, including 56 deaths in mainland China, by 2020-01-26 17:06.","id":"PMC7110798","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd on behalf of International Society for Infectious Diseases.","authors":[{"firstname":"Shi","surname":"Zhao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Qianyin","surname":"Lin","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jinjun","surname":"Ran","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Salihu S.","surname":"Musa","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Guangpu","surname":"Yang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Weiming","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yijun","surname":"Lou","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Daozhou","surname":"Gao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Lin","surname":"Yang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Daihai","surname":"He","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Maggie H.","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1016/S1473-3099(20)30120-1","date":"1970-01-01","title":"An interactive web-based dashboard to track COVID-19 in real time","abstract":"","id":"PMC7159018","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Elsevier Ltd.","authors":[{"firstname":"Ensheng","surname":"Dong","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hongru","surname":"Du","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Lauren","surname":"Gardner","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.1371/journal.pone.0017823","date":"2011-02-14","title":"Spreading Patterns of the Influenza A (H1N1) Pandemic","abstract":"We investigate the dynamics of the 2009 influenza A (H1N1/S-OIV) pandemic by\nanalyzing data obtained from World Health Organization containing the total\nnumber of laboratory-confirmed cases of infections - by country - in a period of\n69 days, from 26 April to 3 July, 2009. Specifically, we find evidence of\nexponential growth in the total number of confirmed cases and linear growth in\nthe number of countries with confirmed cases.\n We also find that, i) at early\nstages, the cumulative distribution of cases among countries exhibits linear\nbehavior on log-log scale, being well approximated by a power law decay; ii) for\nlarger times, the cumulative distribution presents a systematic curvature on\nlog-log scale, indicating a gradual change to lognormal behavior.\n Finally, we\ncompare these empirical findings with the predictions of a simple stochastic\nmodel.\n Our results could help to select more realistic models of the dynamics of\ninfluenza-type pandemics.\n","id":"PMC3069037","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Public Library of Science","authors":[{"firstname":"Sergio","surname":"de Picoli Junior","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jorge Juarez Vieira","surname":"Teixeira","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Haroldo Valentin","surname":"Ribeiro","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Luis Carlos","surname":"Malacarne","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ricardo Paupitz Barbosa","surname":"dos Santos","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Renio dos Santos","surname":"Mendes","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Paulo","surname":"Ho","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Paulo","surname":"Ho","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1002/cplx.21615","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Exponential growth in Ebola outbreak since May 14, 2014","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"R. M. Anderson, R. M. May, Infectious Diseases of Humans: Dynamics and Control, Oxford Science Publications (Oxford Univ. Press, 1991).","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1056/NEJMoa2001316","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Early Transmission Dynamics in Wuhan, China, of Novel CoronavirusInfected Pneumonia","abstract":"Background\nThe initial cases of novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV)infected pneumonia (NCIP) occurred in Wuhan, Hubei Province, China, in December 2019 and January 2020. We analyzed data on the first 425 confirmed cases in Wuhan to determine the epidemiologic characteristics of NCIP.\n\n\nMethods\nWe collected information on demographic characteristics, exposure history, and illness timelines of laboratory-confirmed cases of NCIP that had been reported by January 22, 2020. We described characteristics of the cases and estimated the key epidemiologic time-delay distributions.\n\n In the early period of exponential growth, we estimated the epidemic doubling time and the basic reproductive number.\n\n\nResults\nAmong the first 425 patients with confirmed NCIP, the median age was 59 years and 56% were male.\n\n The majority of cases (55%) with onset before January 1, 2020, were linked to the Huanan Seafood Wholesale Market, as compared with 8.6% of the subsequent cases.\n\n The mean incubation period was 5.2 days (95% confidence interval [CI], 4.1 to 7.0), with the 95th percentile of the distribution at 12.5 days.\n\n In its early stages, the epidemic doubled in size every 7.4 days.\n\n With a mean serial interval of 7.5 days (95% CI, 5.3 to 19), the basic reproductive number was estimated to be 2.2 (95% CI, 1.4 to 3.9).\n\n\nConclusions\nOn the basis of this information, there is evidence that human-to-human transmission has occurred among close contacts since the middle of December 2019. Considerable efforts to reduce transmission will be required to control outbreaks if similar dynamics apply elsewhere.\n\n Measures to prevent or reduce transmission should be implemented in populations at risk.\n\n (Funded by the Ministry of Science and Technology of China and others.\n\n)\n","id":"PMC7121484","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Massachusetts Medical Society","authors":[{"firstname":"Qun","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xuhua","surname":"Guan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Peng","surname":"Wu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xiaoye","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Lei","surname":"Zhou","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yeqing","surname":"Tong","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ruiqi","surname":"Ren","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Kathy S.M.","surname":"Leung","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Eric H.Y.","surname":"Lau","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jessica Y.","surname":"Wong","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xuesen","surname":"Xing","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Nijuan","surname":"Xiang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yang","surname":"Wu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Chao","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Qi","surname":"Chen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Dan","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Tian","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jing","surname":"Zhao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Man","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Wenxiao","surname":"Tu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Chuding","surname":"Chen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Lianmei","surname":"Jin","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Rui","surname":"Yang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Qi","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Suhua","surname":"Zhou","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Rui","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hui","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yinbo","surname":"Luo","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yuan","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ge","surname":"Shao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Huan","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zhongfa","surname":"Tao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yang","surname":"Yang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zhiqiang","surname":"Deng","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Boxi","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zhitao","surname":"Ma","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yanping","surname":"Zhang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Guoqing","surname":"Shi","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Tommy T.Y.","surname":"Lam","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Joseph T.","surname":"Wu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"George F.","surname":"Gao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Benjamin J.","surname":"Cowling","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Bo","surname":"Yang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Bo","surname":"Yang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Gabriel M.","surname":"Leung","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zijian","surname":"Feng","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"B. Prasse, M. A. Achterberg, L. Ma, P. Van Mieghem, Network-Based Prediction of the 2019-nCoV Epidemic Outbreak in the Chinese Province Hubei; arXiv:2002.04482 [physics, q-bio] (2020).","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"S. Sanche et al, The Novel Coronavirus, 2019-nCoV, is Highly Contagious and More Infectious Than Initially Estimated; arXiv:2002.03268 [q-bio] (2020).","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1080/00036811.2020.1732357","date":"1970-01-01","title":"A time delay dynamic system with external source for the local outbreak of 2019-nCoV","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"WHO, Report of the WHO-China joint mission on coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) (2020).","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"M. J. Keeling, P. Rohani, Modeling Infectious Diseases in Humans and Animals (Princeton Univ. Press, 2008).","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Contributions to the mathematical theory of epidemics:I. 1927","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"WHO, Novel Coronavirus (2019-nCoV) Situation Report - 7 (2020).","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"GeoNames Project, GeoNames. https://geonames.org (accessed 1 November 2019).","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]}]},{"doi":"10.1186/s12916-020-01597-8","date":"2020-04-17","title":"Quantifying the impact of physical distance measures on the transmission of COVID-19 in the UK","abstract":"Background\nid='Par1'>To mitigate and slow the spread of COVID-19, many countries have adopted unprecedented physical distancing policies, including the UK.\n\n We evaluate whether these measures might be sufficient to control the epidemic by estimating their impact on the reproduction number (R0, the average number of secondary cases generated per case).\n\n\nMethods\nid='Par2'>We asked a representative sample of UK adults about their contact patterns on the previous day.\n\n The questionnaire was conducted online via email recruitment and documents the age and location of contacts and a measure of their intimacy (whether physical contact was made or not).\n\n In addition, we asked about adherence to different physical distancing measures.\n\n The first surveys were sent on Tuesday, 24 March, 1day after a lockdown was implemented across the UK.\n\n We compared measured contact patterns during the lockdown to patterns of social contact made during a non-epidemic period.\n\n By comparing these, we estimated the change in reproduction number as a consequence of the physical distancing measures imposed.\n\n We used a meta-analysis of published estimates to inform our estimates of the reproduction number before interventions were put in place.\n\n\nResults\nid='Par3'>We found a 74% reduction in the average daily number of contacts observed per participant (from 10.8 to 2.8).\n\n This would be sufficient to reduce R0 from 2.6 prior to lockdown to 0.62 (95% confidence interval [CI] 0.370.89) after the lockdown, based on all types of contact and 0.37 (95% CI?=?0.220.53) for physical (skin to skin) contacts only.\n\n\nConclusions\nid='Par4'>The physical distancing measures adopted by the UK public have substantially reduced contact levels and will likely lead to a substantial impact and a decline in cases in the coming weeks.\n\n However, this projected decline in incidence will not occur immediately as there are significant delays between infection, the onset of symptomatic disease, and hospitalisation, as well as further delays to these events being reported.\n\n Tracking behavioural change can give a more rapid assessment of the impact of physical distancing measures than routine epidemiological surveillance.\n\n\n","id":"PMC7202922","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"BioMed Central","authors":[{"firstname":"Christopher I.","surname":"Jarvis","email":"Christopher.Jarvis@lshtm.ac.uk","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Kevin","surname":"Van Zandvoort","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Amy","surname":"Gimma","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Kiesha","surname":"Prem","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Megan","surname":"Auzenbergs","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Kathleen","surname":"OReilly","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Graham","surname":"Medley","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jon C.","surname":"Emery","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Rein M. G. J.","surname":"Houben","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Nicholas","surname":"Davies","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Emily S.","surname":"Nightingale","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Stefan","surname":"Flasche","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Thibaut","surname":"Jombart","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Joel","surname":"Hellewell","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Sam","surname":"Abbott","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"James D.","surname":"Munday","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Nikos I.","surname":"Bosse","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Sebastian","surname":"Funk","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Fiona","surname":"Sun","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Akira","surname":"Endo","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Alicia","surname":"Rosello","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Simon R.","surname":"Procter","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Adam J.","surname":"Kucharski","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Timothy W.","surname":"Russell","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Gwen","surname":"Knight","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Hamish","surname":"Gibbs","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Quentin","surname":"Leclerc","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Billy J.","surname":"Quilty","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Charlie","surname":"Diamond","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yang","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Mark","surname":"Jit","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Samuel","surname":"Clifford","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Carl A. B.","surname":"Pearson","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Rosalind M.","surname":"Eggo","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Arminder K.","surname":"Deol","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Petra","surname":"Klepac","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Petra","surname":"Klepac","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Petra","surname":"Klepac","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"G. James","surname":"Rubin","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"W. John","surname":"Edmunds","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}],"References depth 2":[{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"ECDC. Situation update worldwide, as of 13 April 2020: ECDC; 2020. https://www.ecdc.europa.eu/en/geographical-distribution-2019-ncov-cases. Accessed 13 Apr 2020.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1186/s40779-020-0233-6","date":"2020-01-30","title":"A rapid advice guideline for the diagnosis and treatment of 2019 novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV) infected pneumonia (standard version)","abstract":"id='Par1'>In December 2019, a new type viral pneumonia cases occurred in Wuhan, Hubei Province; and then named 2019 novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV) by the World Health Organization (WHO) on 12 January 2020. For it is a never been experienced respiratory disease before and with infection ability widely and quickly, it attracted the worlds attention but without treatment and control manual.\n For the request from frontline clinicians and public health professionals of 2019-nCoV infected pneumonia management, an evidence-based guideline urgently needs to be developed.\n Therefore, we drafted this guideline according to the rapid advice guidelines methodology and general rules of WHO guideline development; we also added the first-hand management data of Zhongnan Hospital of Wuhan University.\n This guideline includes the guideline methodology, epidemiological characteristics, disease screening and population prevention, diagnosis, treatment and control (including traditional Chinese Medicine), nosocomial infection prevention and control, and disease nursing of the 2019-nCoV.\n Moreover, we also provide a whole process of a successful treatment case of the severe 2019-nCoV infected pneumonia and experience and lessons of hospital rescue for 2019-nCoV infections.\n This rapid advice guideline is suitable for the first frontline doctors and nurses, managers of hospitals and healthcare sections, community residents, public health persons, relevant researchers, and all person who are interested in the 2019-nCoV.\n","id":"PMC7003341","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"BioMed Central","authors":[{"firstname":"Ying-Hui","surname":"Jin","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Lin","surname":"Cai","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zhen-Shun","surname":"Cheng","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hong","surname":"Cheng","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Tong","surname":"Deng","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yi-Pin","surname":"Fan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Cheng","surname":"Fang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Di","surname":"Huang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Lu-Qi","surname":"Huang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Qiao","surname":"Huang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yong","surname":"Han","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Bo","surname":"Hu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Fen","surname":"Hu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Bing-Hui","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yi-Rong","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ke","surname":"Liang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Li-Kai","surname":"Lin","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Li-Sha","surname":"Luo","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jing","surname":"Ma","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Lin-Lu","surname":"Ma","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zhi-Yong","surname":"Peng","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yun-Bao","surname":"Pan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zhen-Yu","surname":"Pan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xue-Qun","surname":"Ren","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hui-Min","surname":"Sun","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ying","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yun-Yun","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hong","surname":"Weng","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Chao-Jie","surname":"Wei","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Dong-Fang","surname":"Wu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jian","surname":"Xia","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yong","surname":"Xiong","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hai-Bo","surname":"Xu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xiao-Mei","surname":"Yao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yu-Feng","surname":"Yuan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Tai-Sheng","surname":"Ye","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xiao-Chun","surname":"Zhang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ying-Wen","surname":"Zhang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yin-Gao","surname":"Zhang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hua-Min","surname":"Zhang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yan","surname":"Zhao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ming-Juan","surname":"Zhao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hao","surname":"Zi","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xian-Tao","surname":"Zeng","email":"zengxiantao1128@163.com","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yong-Yan","surname":"Wang","email":"wangyyanpublic@bta.net.cn","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xing-Huan","surname":"Wang","email":"wangxinghuan1965@163.com","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"NULL","surname":"NULL","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Fancourt D. New study into psychological and social effects of Covid-19: UCL; 2020. https://www.ucl.ac.uk/news/2020/mar/new-study-psychological-and-social-effects-covid-19. Accessed 25 Mar 2020.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"YouGov. COVID-19 Public Monitor. YouGov. https://yougov.co.uk/topics/health/explore/issue/Coronavirus. Accessed 31 Mar 2020.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1371/journal.pcbi.1002425","date":"2012-01-27","title":"Measured Dynamic Social Contact Patterns Explain the Spread of H1N1v Influenza","abstract":"Patterns of social mixing are key determinants of epidemic spread.\n Here we present the results of an internet-based social contact survey completed by a cohort of participants over 9,000 times between July 2009 and March 2010, during the 2009 H1N1v influenza epidemic.\n We quantify the changes in social contact patterns over time, finding that school children make 40% fewer contacts during holiday periods than during term time.\n We use these dynamically varying contact patterns to parameterise an age-structured model of influenza spread, capturing well the observed patterns of incidence; the changing contact patterns resulted in a fall of approximately 35% in the reproduction number of influenza during the holidays.\n This work illustrates the importance of including changing mixing patterns in epidemic models.\n We conclude that changes in contact patterns explain changes in disease incidence, and that the timing of school terms drove the 2009 H1N1v epidemic in the UK.\n Changes in social mixing patterns can be usefully measured through simple internet-based surveys.\n","id":"PMC3297563","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Public Library of Science","authors":[{"firstname":"Ken T. D.","surname":"Eames","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Natasha L.","surname":"Tilston","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ellen","surname":"Brooks-Pollock","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"W. John","surname":"Edmunds","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Marcel","surname":"Salath","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Marcel","surname":"Salath","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1186/1471-2334-9-187","date":"2009-11-27","title":"Estimating the impact of school closure on social mixing behaviour and the transmission of close contact infections in eight European countries","abstract":"Background\nMathematical modelling of infectious disease is increasingly used to help guide public health policy.\n\n As directly transmitted infections, such as influenza and tuberculosis, require contact between individuals, knowledge about contact patterns is a necessary pre-requisite of accurate model predictions.\n\n Of particular interest is the potential impact of school closure as a means of controlling pandemic influenza (and potentially other pathogens).\n\n\nMethods\nThis paper uses a population-based prospective survey of mixing patterns in eight European countries to study the relative change in the basic reproduction number (R0 - the average number of secondary cases from a typical primary case in a fully susceptible population) on weekdays versus weekends and during regular versus holiday periods.\n\n The relative change in R0 during holiday periods and weekends gives an indication of the impact collective school closures (and prophylactic absenteeism) may have during a pandemic.\n\n\nResults\nSocial contact patterns differ substantially when comparing weekdays to the weekend and regular to holiday periods mainly due to the reduction in work and/or school contacts.\n\n For most countries the basic reproduction number decreases from the week to weekends and regular to holiday periods by about 21% and 17%, respectively.\n\n However for other countries no significant decrease was observed.\n\n\nConclusion\nWe use a large-scale social contact survey in eight different European countries to gain insights in the relative change in the basic reproduction number on weekdays versus weekends and during regular versus holiday periods.\n\n The resulting estimates indicate that school closure can have a substantial impact on the spread of a newly emerging infectious disease that is transmitted via close (non sexual) contacts.\n\n\n","id":"PMC2799408","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"BioMed Central","authors":[{"firstname":"Niel","surname":"Hens","email":"niel.hens@uhasselt.be","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Girma Minalu","surname":"Ayele","email":"girma.minaluayele@uhasselt.be","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Nele","surname":"Goeyvaerts","email":"nele.goeyvaerts@uhasselt.be","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Marc","surname":"Aerts","email":"marc.aerts@uhasselt.be","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Joel","surname":"Mossong","email":"joel.mossong@lns.etat.lu","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"John W","surname":"Edmunds","email":"john.edmunds@lshtm.ac.uk","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Philippe","surname":"Beutels","email":"philippe.beutels@ua.ac.be","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1371/journal.pcbi.1005697","date":"2017-07-25","title":"Projecting social contact matrices in 152 countries using contact surveys and demographic data","abstract":"Heterogeneities in contact networks have a major effect in determining whether a pathogen can become epidemic or persist at endemic levels.\n Epidemic models that determine which interventions can successfully prevent an outbreak need to account for social structure and mixing patterns.\n Contact patterns vary across age and locations (e.\ng.\n home, work, and school), and including them as predictors in transmission dynamic models of pathogens that spread socially will improve the models realism.\n Data from population-based contact diaries in eight European countries from the POLYMOD study were projected to 144 other countries using a Bayesian hierarchical model that estimated the proclivity of age-and-location-specific contact patterns for the countries, using Markov chain Monte Carlo simulation.\n Household level data from the Demographic and Health Surveys for nine lower-income countries and socio-demographic factors from several on-line databases for 152 countries were used to quantify similarity of countries to estimate contact patterns in the home, work, school and other locations for countries for which no contact data are available, accounting for demographic structure, household structure where known, and a variety of metrics including workforce participation and school enrolment.\n Contacts are highly assortative with age across all countries considered, but pronounced regional differences in the age-specific contacts at home were noticeable, with more inter-generational contacts in Asian countries than in other settings.\n Moreover, there were variations in contact patterns by location, with work-place contacts being least assortative.\n These variations led to differences in the effect of social distancing measures in an age structured epidemic model.\n Contacts have an important role in transmission dynamic models that use contact rates to characterize the spread of contact-transmissible diseases.\n This study provides estimates of mixing patterns for societies for which contact data such as POLYMOD are not yet available.\n","id":"PMC5609774","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Public Library of Science","authors":[{"firstname":"Kiesha","surname":"Prem","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Alex R.","surname":"Cook","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Alex R.","surname":"Cook","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Mark","surname":"Jit","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Mark","surname":"Jit","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Betz","surname":"Halloran","email":"NULL","contributions":"3"},{"firstname":"Betz","surname":"Halloran","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Betz","surname":"Halloran","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"NULL","surname":"NULL","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"NULL","surname":"NULL","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"NULL","surname":"NULL","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"NULL","surname":"NULL","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1073/pnas.1821298116","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Reactive school closure weakens the network of social interactions and reduces the spread of influenza","abstract":"The effectiveness of school-closure policies to mitigate seasonal and pandemic influenza is controversial, mostly because of the lack of empirical evidence about the behavior of the population during the implementation of these policies.\n In this study, we measure the behavior of the population during regular school/work days and when schools/classes are closed as a consequence of a school-closure policy.\n We leverage the obtained data to develop an innovative data-driven predictive-modeling framework to reduce the uncertainty surrounding school-closure policies.\n","id":"PMC6613079","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"National Academy of Sciences","authors":[{"firstname":"Maria","surname":"Litvinova","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Quan-Hui","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Evgeny S.","surname":"Kulikov","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Marco","surname":"Ajelli","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Zhang J, Litvinova M, Liang Y, Wang Y, Wang W, Zhao S, et al. Age profile of susceptibility, mixing, and social distancing shape the dynamics of the novel coronavirus disease 2019 outbreak in China. Epidemiology. 2020. 10.1101/2020.03.19.20039107.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1371/journal.pmed.0050074","date":"2008-02-15","title":"Social Contacts and Mixing Patterns Relevant to the Spread of Infectious Diseases","abstract":"Background\nMathematical modelling of infectious diseases transmitted by the respiratory or close-contact route (e.\n\ng.\n\n, pandemic influenza) is increasingly being used to determine the impact of possible interventions.\n\n Although mixing patterns are known to be crucial determinants for model outcome, researchers often rely on a priori contact assumptions with little or no empirical basis.\n\n We conducted a population-based prospective survey of mixing patterns in eight European countries using a common paper-diary methodology.\n\n\nMethods and Findings\n7,290 participants recorded characteristics of 97,904 contacts with different individuals during one day, including age, sex, location, duration, frequency, and occurrence of physical contact.\n\n We found that mixing patterns and contact characteristics were remarkably similar across different European countries.\n\n Contact patterns were highly assortative with age: schoolchildren and young adults in particular tended to mix with people of the same age.\n\n Contacts lasting at least one hour or occurring on a daily basis mostly involved physical contact, while short duration and infrequent contacts tended to be nonphysical.\n\n Contacts at home, school, or leisure were more likely to be physical than contacts at the workplace or while travelling.\n\n Preliminary modelling indicates that 5- to 19-year-olds are expected to suffer the highest incidence during the initial epidemic phase of an emerging infection transmitted through social contacts measured here when the population is completely susceptible.\n\n\nConclusions\nTo our knowledge, our study provides the first large-scale quantitative approach to contact patterns relevant for infections transmitted by the respiratory or close-contact route, and the results should lead to improved parameterisation of mathematical models used to design control strategies.\n\n\n","id":"PMC2270306","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Public Library of Science","authors":[{"firstname":"Jol","surname":"Mossong","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Niel","surname":"Hens","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Mark","surname":"Jit","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Philippe","surname":"Beutels","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Kari","surname":"Auranen","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Rafael","surname":"Mikolajczyk","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Marco","surname":"Massari","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Stefania","surname":"Salmaso","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Gianpaolo Scalia","surname":"Tomba","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jacco","surname":"Wallinga","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Janneke","surname":"Heijne","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Malgorzata","surname":"Sadkowska-Todys","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Magdalena","surname":"Rosinska","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"W. John","surname":"Edmunds","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Steven","surname":"Riley","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Steven","surname":"Riley","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Office of National Statistics. Estimates of the population for the UK, England and Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland mid-2018. 2019. https://www.ons.gov.uk/peoplepopulationandcommunity/populationandmigration/populationestimates/datasets/populationestimatesforukenglandandwalesscotlandandnorthernireland. Accessed 25 Mar 2020.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1093/aje/kwj317","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Using data on social contacts to estimate age-specific transmission parameters for respiratory-spread infectious agents","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Klepac P, Kucharski AJ, Conlan AJK, Kissler S, Tang M, Fry H, et al. Contacts in context: large-scale setting-specific social mixing matrices from the BBC Pandemic project. Epidemiology. 2020. 10.1101/2020.02.16.20023754.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1098/rsif.2009.0386","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The construction of next-generation matrices for compartmental epidemic models","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/j.ijfoodmicro.2010.07.011","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Evaluating variability and uncertainty separately in microbial quantitative risk assessment using two R packages","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Riou J, Althaus CL. Pattern of early human-to-human transmission of Wuhan 2019 novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV), December 2019 to January 2020. Euro Surveill. 2020;25. 10.2807/1560-7917.ES.2020.25.4.2000058.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Read JM, Bridgen JRE, Cummings DAT, Ho A, Jewell CP. Novel coronavirus 2019-nCoV: early estimation of epidemiological parameters and epidemic predictions. MedRxiv. 2020; https://www.medrxiv.org/CONTENT/10.1101/2020.01.23.20018549V2.abstract. Accessed 15 Apr 2020.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Zhao S, Lin Q, Ran J, Musa SS, Yang G, Wang W, et al. Preliminary estimation of the basic reproduction number of novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV) in China, from 2019 to 2020: a data-driven analysis in the early phase of the outbreak. bioRxiv. 2020. 10.1101/2020.01.23.916395.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Liu T, Hu J, Kang M, Lin L, Zhong H, Xiao J, et al. Transmission dynamics of 2019 novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV). bioRxiv. 2020. 10.2139/ssrn.3526307.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Chinazzi M, Davis JT, Ajelli M, Gioannini C, Litvinova M, Merler S, et al. The effect of travel restrictions on the spread of the 2019 novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV) outbreak. MedRxiv. 2020. 10.1101/2020.02.09.20021261.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Wu P, Hao X, Lau EHY, Wong JY, Leung KSM, Wu JT, et al. Real-time tentative assessment of the epidemiological characteristics of novel coronavirus infections in Wuhan, China, as at 22 January 2020. Euro Surveill. 2020;25. 10.2807/1560-7917.ES.2020.25.3.2000044.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Jung S-M, Akhmetzhanov AR, Hayashi K, Linton NM, Yang Y, Yuan B, et al. Real-time estimation of the risk of death from novel coronavirus (COVID-19) infection: inference using exported cases. J Clin Med Res. 2020;9. 10.3390/jcm9020523.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Zhuang Z, Zhao S, Lin Q, Cao P, Lou Y, Yang L, et al. Preliminary estimating the reproduction number of the coronavirus disease (COVID-19) outbreak in Republic of Korea from 31 January to 1 March 2020. medRxiv. 2020; https://www.medrxiv.org/content/medrxiv/early/2020/03/10/2020.03.02.20030312.full.pdf. Accessed 15 Apr 2020.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Chong KC, Cheng W, Zhao S, Ling F, Mohammad KN. Monitoring disease transmissibility of 2019 novel coronavirus disease in Zhejiang, China. medRxiv. 2020; https://www.medrxiv.org/content/10.1101/2020.03.02.20028704v1.abstract.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1056/NEJMoa2001316","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Early Transmission Dynamics in Wuhan, China, of Novel CoronavirusInfected Pneumonia","abstract":"Background\nThe initial cases of novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV)infected pneumonia (NCIP) occurred in Wuhan, Hubei Province, China, in December 2019 and January 2020. We analyzed data on the first 425 confirmed cases in Wuhan to determine the epidemiologic characteristics of NCIP.\n\n\nMethods\nWe collected information on demographic characteristics, exposure history, and illness timelines of laboratory-confirmed cases of NCIP that had been reported by January 22, 2020. We described characteristics of the cases and estimated the key epidemiologic time-delay distributions.\n\n In the early period of exponential growth, we estimated the epidemic doubling time and the basic reproductive number.\n\n\nResults\nAmong the first 425 patients with confirmed NCIP, the median age was 59 years and 56% were male.\n\n The majority of cases (55%) with onset before January 1, 2020, were linked to the Huanan Seafood Wholesale Market, as compared with 8.6% of the subsequent cases.\n\n The mean incubation period was 5.2 days (95% confidence interval [CI], 4.1 to 7.0), with the 95th percentile of the distribution at 12.5 days.\n\n In its early stages, the epidemic doubled in size every 7.4 days.\n\n With a mean serial interval of 7.5 days (95% CI, 5.3 to 19), the basic reproductive number was estimated to be 2.2 (95% CI, 1.4 to 3.9).\n\n\nConclusions\nOn the basis of this information, there is evidence that human-to-human transmission has occurred among close contacts since the middle of December 2019. Considerable efforts to reduce transmission will be required to control outbreaks if similar dynamics apply elsewhere.\n\n Measures to prevent or reduce transmission should be implemented in populations at risk.\n\n (Funded by the Ministry of Science and Technology of China and others.\n\n)\n","id":"PMC7121484","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Massachusetts Medical Society","authors":[{"firstname":"Qun","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xuhua","surname":"Guan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Peng","surname":"Wu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xiaoye","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Lei","surname":"Zhou","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yeqing","surname":"Tong","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ruiqi","surname":"Ren","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Kathy S.M.","surname":"Leung","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Eric H.Y.","surname":"Lau","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jessica Y.","surname":"Wong","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xuesen","surname":"Xing","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Nijuan","surname":"Xiang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yang","surname":"Wu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Chao","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Qi","surname":"Chen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Dan","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Tian","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jing","surname":"Zhao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Man","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Wenxiao","surname":"Tu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Chuding","surname":"Chen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Lianmei","surname":"Jin","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Rui","surname":"Yang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Qi","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Suhua","surname":"Zhou","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Rui","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hui","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yinbo","surname":"Luo","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yuan","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ge","surname":"Shao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Huan","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zhongfa","surname":"Tao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yang","surname":"Yang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zhiqiang","surname":"Deng","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Boxi","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zhitao","surname":"Ma","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yanping","surname":"Zhang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Guoqing","surname":"Shi","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Tommy T.Y.","surname":"Lam","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Joseph T.","surname":"Wu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"George F.","surname":"Gao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Benjamin J.","surname":"Cowling","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Bo","surname":"Yang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Bo","surname":"Yang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Gabriel M.","surname":"Leung","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zijian","surname":"Feng","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.12688/wellcomeopenres.15718.1","date":"2020-01-31","title":"The transmissibility of novel Coronavirus in the early stages of the 2019-20 outbreak in Wuhan: Exploring initial point-source exposure sizes and durations using scenario analysis","abstract":"\nBackground: The current novel coronavirus outbreak appears to have originated from a point-source exposure event at Huanan seafood wholesale market in Wuhan, China.\n There is still uncertainty around the scale and duration of this exposure event.\n This has implications for the estimated transmissibility of the coronavirus and as such, these potential scenarios should be explored.\n","id":"PMC7156988","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"F1000 Research Limited","authors":[{"firstname":"Sam","surname":"Abbott","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Joel","surname":"Hellewell","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Joel","surname":"Hellewell","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"James","surname":"Munday","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"James","surname":"Munday","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"NULL","surname":"NULL","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"NULL","surname":"NULL","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Sebastian","surname":"Funk","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Andrei R.","surname":"Akhmetzhanov","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Andrei R.","surname":"Akhmetzhanov","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Andrei R.","surname":"Akhmetzhanov","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Christian","surname":"Althaus","email":"NULL","contributions":"3"},{"firstname":"Christian","surname":"Althaus","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Christian","surname":"Althaus","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]}]},{"doi":"10.1038/s41586-020-2405-7","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Estimating the effects of non-pharmaceutical interventions on COVID-19 in Europe","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[{"doi":"10.3201/eid2501.171901","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Complexity of the Basic Reproduction Number (R<sub>0</sub>)","abstract":"The basic reproduction number (R0), also called the basic reproduction ratio or rate or the basic reproductive rate, is an epidemiologic metric used to describe the contagiousness or transmissibility of infectious agents.\n R0 is affected by numerous biological, sociobehavioral, and environmental factors that govern pathogen transmission and, therefore, is usually estimated with various types of complex mathematical models, which make R0 easily misrepresented, misinterpreted, and misapplied.\n R0 is not a biological constant for a pathogen, a rate over time, or a measure of disease severity, and R0 cannot be modified through vaccination campaigns.\n R0 is rarely measured directly, and modeled R0 values are dependent on model structures and assumptions.\n Some R0 values reported in the scientific literature are likely obsolete.\n R0 must be estimated, reported, and applied with great caution because this basic metric is far from simple.\n","id":"PMC6302597","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Centers for Disease Control and Prevention","authors":[{"firstname":"Paul L.","surname":"Delamater","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Erica J.","surname":"Street","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Timothy F.","surname":"Leslie","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Y. Tony","surname":"Yang","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Kathryn H.","surname":"Jacobsen","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.1007/978-3-319-72122-4_1","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Important concepts in mathematical modeling of infectious diseases","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1038/s41586-020-2405-7","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Estimating the effects of non-pharmaceutical interventions on COVID-19 in Europe","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.7326/M20-0504","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The Incubation Period of Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) From Publicly Reported Confirmed Cases: Estimation and Application","abstract":"Background:\nA novel human coronavirus, severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2), was identified in China in December 2019. There is limited support for many of its key epidemiologic features, including the incubation period for clinical disease (coronavirus disease 2019 [COVID-19]), which has important implications for surveillance and control activities.\n\n\nObjective:\nTo estimate the length of the incubation period of COVID-19 and describe its public health implications.\n\n\nDesign:\nPooled analysis of confirmed COVID-19 cases reported between 4 January 2020 and 24 February 2020.\nSetting:\nNews reports and press releases from 50 provinces, regions, and countries outside Wuhan, Hubei province, China.\n\n\nParticipants:\nPersons with confirmed SARS-CoV-2 infection outside Hubei province, China.\n\n\nMeasurements:\nPatient demographic characteristics and dates and times of possible exposure, symptom onset, fever onset, and hospitalization.\n\n\nResults:\nThere were 181 confirmed cases with identifiable exposure and symptom onset windows to estimate the incubation period of COVID-19. The median incubation period was estimated to be 5.1 days (95% CI, 4.5 to 5.8 days), and 97.5% of those who develop symptoms will do so within 11.5 days (CI, 8.2 to 15.6 days) of infection.\n\n These estimates imply that, under conservative assumptions, 101 out of every 10000 cases (99th percentile, 482) will develop symptoms after 14 days of active monitoring or quarantine.\n\n\nLimitation:\nPublicly reported cases may overrepresent severe cases, the incubation period for which may differ from that of mild cases.\n\n\nConclusion:\nThis work provides additional evidence for a median incubation period for COVID-19 of approximately 5 days, similar to SARS.\n\n Our results support current proposals for the length of quarantine or active monitoring of persons potentially exposed to SARS-CoV-2, although longer monitoring periods might be justified in extreme cases.\n\n\nPrimary Funding Source:\nU.\n\nS.\n\n Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, National Institute of General Medical Sciences, and Alexander von Humboldt Foundation.\n\n\n","id":"PMC7081172","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"American College of Physicians","authors":[{"firstname":"Stephen A.","surname":"Lauer","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Kyra H.","surname":"Grantz","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Qifang","surname":"Bi","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Forrest K.","surname":"Jones","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Qulu","surname":"Zheng","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hannah R.","surname":"Meredith","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Andrew S.","surname":"Azman","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Nicholas G.","surname":"Reich","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Justin","surname":"Lessler","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1016/S1473-3099(20)30243-7","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Estimates of the severity of coronavirus disease 2019: a model-based analysis","abstract":"Background\nIn the face of rapidly changing data, a range of case fatality ratio estimates for coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) have been produced that differ substantially in magnitude.\n\n We aimed to provide robust estimates, accounting for censoring and ascertainment biases.\n\n\nMethods\nWe collected individual-case data for patients who died from COVID-19 in Hubei, mainland China (reported by national and provincial health commissions to Feb 8, 2020), and for cases outside of mainland China (from government or ministry of health websites and media reports for 37 countries, as well as Hong Kong and Macau, until Feb 25, 2020).\n\n These individual-case data were used to estimate the time between onset of symptoms and outcome (death or discharge from hospital).\n\n We next obtained age-stratified estimates of the case fatality ratio by relating the aggregate distribution of cases to the observed cumulative deaths in China, assuming a constant attack rate by age and adjusting for demography and age-based and location-based under-ascertainment.\n\n We also estimated the case fatality ratio from individual line-list data on 1334 cases identified outside of mainland China.\n\n Using data on the prevalence of PCR-confirmed cases in international residents repatriated from China, we obtained age-stratified estimates of the infection fatality ratio.\n\n Furthermore, data on age-stratified severity in a subset of 3665 cases from China were used to estimate the proportion of infected individuals who are likely to require hospitalisation.\n\n\nFindings\nUsing data on 24 deaths that occurred in mainland China and 165 recoveries outside of China, we estimated the mean duration from onset of symptoms to death to be 178 days (95% credible interval [CrI] 169192) and to hospital discharge to be 247 days (229281).\n\n In all laboratory confirmed and clinically diagnosed cases from mainland China (n=70?117), we estimated a crude case fatality ratio (adjusted for censoring) of 367% (95% CrI 356380).\n\n However, after further adjusting for demography and under-ascertainment, we obtained a best estimate of the case fatality ratio in China of 138% (123153), with substantially higher ratios in older age groups (032% [027038] in those aged &lt;60 years vs 64% [5772] in those aged ?60 years), up to 134% (112159) in those aged 80 years or older.\n\n Estimates of case fatality ratio from international cases stratified by age were consistent with those from China (parametric estimate 14% [0435] in those aged &lt;60 years [n=360] and 45% [18111] in those aged ?60 years [n=151]).\n\n Our estimated overall infection fatality ratio for China was 066% (039133), with an increasing profile with age.\n\n Similarly, estimates of the proportion of infected individuals likely to be hospitalised increased with age up to a maximum of 184% (110376) in those aged 80 years or older.\n\n\nInterpretation\nThese early estimates give an indication of the fatality ratio across the spectrum of COVID-19 disease and show a strong age gradient in risk of death.\n\n\nFunding\nUK Medical Research Council.\n\n\n","id":"PMC7158570","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Elsevier Science ;, The Lancet Pub. Group","authors":[{"firstname":"Robert","surname":"Verity","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Lucy C","surname":"Okell","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ilaria","surname":"Dorigatti","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Peter","surname":"Winskill","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Charles","surname":"Whittaker","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Natsuko","surname":"Imai","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Gina","surname":"Cuomo-Dannenburg","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hayley","surname":"Thompson","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Patrick G T","surname":"Walker","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Han","surname":"Fu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Amy","surname":"Dighe","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jamie T","surname":"Griffin","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Marc","surname":"Baguelin","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Sangeeta","surname":"Bhatia","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Adhiratha","surname":"Boonyasiri","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Anne","surname":"Cori","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zulma","surname":"Cucunub","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Rich","surname":"FitzJohn","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Katy","surname":"Gaythorpe","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Will","surname":"Green","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Arran","surname":"Hamlet","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Wes","surname":"Hinsley","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Daniel","surname":"Laydon","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Gemma","surname":"Nedjati-Gilani","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Steven","surname":"Riley","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Sabine","surname":"van Elsland","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Erik","surname":"Volz","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Haowei","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yuanrong","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xiaoyue","surname":"Xi","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Christl A","surname":"Donnelly","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Azra C","surname":"Ghani","email":"a.ghani@imperial.ac.uk","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Neil M","surname":"Ferguson","email":"neil.ferguson@imperial.ac.uk","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Comment on Flaxman (2020): the illusory effects of non-pharmaceutical interventions on COVID-19 in Europe","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]}]},{"doi":"10.1016/S0140-6736(20)31142-9","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Physical distancing, face masks, and eye protection to prevent person-to-person transmission of SARS-CoV-2 and COVID-19: a systematic review and meta-analysis","abstract":"Background\nSevere acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) causes COVID-19 and is spread person-to-person through close contact.\n\n We aimed to investigate the effects of physical distance, face masks, and eye protection on virus transmission in health-care and non-health-care (eg, community) settings.\n\n\nMethods\nWe did a systematic review and meta-analysis to investigate the optimum distance for avoiding person-to-person virus transmission and to assess the use of face masks and eye protection to prevent transmission of viruses.\n\n We obtained data for SARS-CoV-2 and the betacoronaviruses that cause severe acute respiratory syndrome, and Middle East respiratory syndrome from 21 standard WHO-specific and COVID-19-specific sources.\n\n We searched these data sources from database inception to May 3, 2020, with no restriction by language, for comparative studies and for contextual factors of acceptability, feasibility, resource use, and equity.\n\n We screened records, extracted data, and assessed risk of bias in duplicate.\n\n We did frequentist and Bayesian meta-analyses and random-effects meta-regressions.\n\n We rated the certainty of evidence according to Cochrane methods and the GRADE approach.\n\n This study is registered with PROSPERO, CRD42020177047.\nFindings\nOur search identified 172 observational studies across 16 countries and six continents, with no randomised controlled trials and 44 relevant comparative studies in health-care and non-health-care settings (n=25?697 patients).\n\n Transmission of viruses was lower with physical distancing of 1 m or more, compared with a distance of less than 1 m (n=10?736, pooled adjusted odds ratio [aOR] 018, 95% CI 009 to 038; risk difference [RD] ?102%, 95% CI ?115 to ?75; moderate certainty); protection was increased as distance was lengthened (change in relative risk [RR] 202 per m; pinteraction=0041; moderate certainty).\n\n Face mask use could result in a large reduction in risk of infection (n=2647; aOR 015, 95% CI 007 to 034, RD ?143%, ?159 to ?107; low certainty), with stronger associations with N95 or similar respirators compared with disposable surgical masks or similar (eg, reusable 1216-layer cotton masks; pinteraction=0090; posterior probability &gt;95%, low certainty).\n\n Eye protection also was associated with less infection (n=3713; aOR 022, 95% CI 012 to 039, RD ?106%, 95% CI ?125 to ?77; low certainty).\n\n Unadjusted studies and subgroup and sensitivity analyses showed similar findings.\n\n\nInterpretation\nThe findings of this systematic review and meta-analysis support physical distancing of 1 m or more and provide quantitative estimates for models and contact tracing to inform policy.\n\n Optimum use of face masks, respirators, and eye protection in public and health-care settings should be informed by these findings and contextual factors.\n\n Robust randomised trials are needed to better inform the evidence for these interventions, but this systematic appraisal of currently best available evidence might inform interim guidance.\n\n\nFunding\nWorld Health Organization.\n\n\n","id":"PMC7263814","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Elsevier","authors":[{"firstname":"Derek K","surname":"Chu","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Elie A","surname":"Akl","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Stephanie","surname":"Duda","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Karla","surname":"Solo","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Sally","surname":"Yaacoub","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Holger J","surname":"Schnemann","email":"schuneh@mcmaster.ca","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Derek K","surname":"Chu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Elie A","surname":"Akl","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Amena","surname":"El-harakeh","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Antonio","surname":"Bognanni","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Tamara","surname":"Lotfi","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Mark","surname":"Loeb","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Anisa","surname":"Hajizadeh","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Anna","surname":"Bak","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ariel","surname":"Izcovich","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Carlos A","surname":"Cuello-Garcia","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Chen","surname":"Chen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"David J","surname":"Harris","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ewa","surname":"Borowiack","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Fatimah","surname":"Chamseddine","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Finn","surname":"Schnemann","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Gian Paolo","surname":"Morgano","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Giovanna E U","surname":"Muti Schnemann","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Guang","surname":"Chen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hong","surname":"Zhao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ignacio","surname":"Neumann","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jeffrey","surname":"Chan","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Joanne","surname":"Khabsa","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Layal","surname":"Hneiny","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Leila","surname":"Harrison","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Maureen","surname":"Smith","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Nesrine","surname":"Rizk","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Paolo","surname":"Giorgi Rossi","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Pierre","surname":"AbiHanna","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Rayane","surname":"El-khoury","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Rosa","surname":"Stalteri","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Tejan","surname":"Baldeh","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Thomas","surname":"Piggott","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Yuan","surname":"Zhang","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Zahra","surname":"Saad","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Assem","surname":"Khamis","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Marge","surname":"Reinap","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Stephanie","surname":"Duda","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Karla","surname":"Solo","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Sally","surname":"Yaacoub","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Holger J","surname":"Schnemann","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}],"References depth 2":[{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"COVID-19 coronavirus pandemic","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.3201/eid2607.200885","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Aerosol and Surface Distribution of Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus 2 in Hospital Wards, Wuhan, China, 2020","abstract":"To determine distribution of severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 in hospital wards in Wuhan, China, we tested air and surface samples.\n Contamination was greater in intensive care units than general wards.\n Virus was widely distributed on floors, computer mice, trash cans, and sickbed handrails and was detected in air ?4 m from patients.\n","id":"PMC7323510","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Centers for Disease Control and Prevention","authors":[{"firstname":"Zhen-Dong","surname":"Guo","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Zhong-Yi","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Shou-Feng","surname":"Zhang","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Xiao","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Lin","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Chao","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yan","surname":"Cui","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Rui-Bin","surname":"Fu","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Yun-Zhu","surname":"Dong","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Xiang-Yang","surname":"Chi","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Meng-Yao","surname":"Zhang","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Kun","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Cheng","surname":"Cao","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Bin","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ke","surname":"Zhang","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Yu-Wei","surname":"Gao","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Bing","surname":"Lu","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Wei","surname":"Chen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1101/2020.03.29.20046557","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Detection of air and surface contamination by severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) in hospital rooms of infected patients","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1101/2020.03.23.20039446","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Transmission potential of SARS-CoV-2 in viral shedding observed at the University of Nebraska Medical Center","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Escalating infection control response to the rapidly evolving epidemiology of the coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) due to SARS-CoV-2 in Hong Kong","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Risk of nosocomial transmission of coronavirus disease 2019: an experience in a general ward setting in Hong Kong","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"A field indoor air measurement of SARS-CoV-2 in the patient rooms of the largest hospital in Iran","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Air, surface environmental, and personal protective equipment contamination by severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) from a symptomatic patient","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Community mitigation guidelines to prevent pandemic influenza: United States, 2017","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Rational use of face masks in the COVID-19 pandemic","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"COVID-19: should cloth masks be used by healthcare workers as a last resort?","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Surgical mask vs N95 respirator for preventing influenza among health care workers: a randomized trial","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1111/irv.12745","date":"2020-04-01","title":"Medical masks vs N95 respirators for preventing COVID?19 in healthcare workers: A systematic review and meta?analysis of randomized trials","abstract":"Background\nRespiratory protective devices are critical in protecting against infection in healthcare workers at high risk of novel 2019 coronavirus disease (COVID?19); however, recommendations are conflicting and epidemiological data on their relative effectiveness against COVID?19 are limited.\n\n\nPurpose\nTo compare medical masks to N95 respirators in preventing laboratory?confirmed viral infection and respiratory illness including coronavirus specifically in healthcare workers.\n\n\nData Sources\nMEDLINE, Embase, and CENTRAL from January 1, 2014, to March 9, 2020. Update of published search conducted from January 1, 1990, to December 9, 2014.\nStudy Selection\nRandomized controlled trials (RCTs) comparing the protective effect of medical masks to N95 respirators in healthcare workers.\n\n\nData Extraction\nReviewer pair independently screened, extracted data, and assessed risk of bias and the certainty of the evidence.\n\n\nData Synthesis\nFour RCTs were meta?analyzed adjusting for clustering.\n\n Compared with N95 respirators; the use of medical masks did not increase laboratory?confirmed viral (including coronaviruses) respiratory infection (OR 1.06; 95% CI 0.90?1.25; I\n2=0%; low certainty in the evidence) or clinical respiratory illness (OR 1.49; 95% CI: 0.98?2.28; I\n2=78%; very low certainty in the evidence).\n\n Only one trial evaluated coronaviruses separately and found no difference between the two groups (P=.\n\n49).\n\n\nLimitations\nIndirectness and imprecision of available evidence.\n\n\nConclusions\nLow certainty evidence suggests that medical masks and N95 respirators offer similar protection against viral respiratory infection including coronavirus in healthcare workers during nonaerosol?generating care.\n\n Preservation of N95 respirators for high?risk, aerosol?generating procedures in this pandemic should be considered when in short supply.\n\n\n","id":"PMC7298295","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"John Wiley and Sons Inc.","authors":[{"firstname":"Jessica J.","surname":"Bartoszko","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Mohammed Abdul Malik","surname":"Farooqi","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Waleed","surname":"Alhazzani","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Mark","surname":"Loeb","email":"loebm@mcmaster.ca","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Reviews: rapid! Rapid! Rapid! . . . and systematic","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Cochrane handbook for systematic reviews of interventions, version 6","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"GRADE: an emerging consensus on rating quality of evidence and strength of recommendations","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Preferred reporting items for systematic reviews and meta-analyses: the PRISMA statement","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Meta-analysis of observational studies in epidemiology: a proposal for reporting","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Physical interventions to interrupt or reduce the spread of respiratory viruses","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Effectiveness of masks and respirators against respiratory infections in healthcare workers: a systematic review and meta-analysis","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"GRADE guidelines, 7: rating the quality of evidence:inconsistency","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Use of GRADE for assessment of evidence about prognosis: rating confidence in estimates of event rates in broad categories of patients","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"No clear choice between Newcastle-Ottawa Scale and Appraisal Tool for Cross-Sectional Studies to assess methodological quality in cross-sectional studies of health-related quality of life and breast cancer","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The Newcastle-Ottawa Scale (NOS) for assessing the quality of nonrandomised studies in meta-analyses","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"RoB 2: a revised tool for assessing risk of bias in randomised trials","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"GRADE guidelines, 1: introduction:GRADE evidence profiles and summary of findings tables","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"GRADE guidelines, 13: preparing summary of findings tables and evidence profiles:continuous outcomes","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Improving GRADE evidence tables part 3: detailed guidance for explanatory footnotes supports creating and understanding GRADE certainty in the evidence judgments","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"GRADE guidelines, 26: informative statements to communicate the findings of systematic reviews of interventions","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Controlling the risk of spurious findings from meta-regression","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1101/2020.03.30.20047217","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Physical interventions to interrupt or reduce the spread of respiratory viruses, part 1: face masks, eye protection and person distancing:systematic review and meta-analysis","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Bayesian methods in meta-analysis and evidence synthesis","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Extracorporeal membrane oxygenation for severe acute respiratory distress syndrome and posterior probability of mortality benefit in a post hoc Bayesian analysis of a randomized clinical trial","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Risk factors for Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus infection among healthcare personnel","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus transmission in extended family, Saudi Arabia, 2014","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1101/2020.03.29.20047159","date":"1970-01-01","title":"SARS-CoV-2 infection in health care workers: a retrospective analysis and a model study","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1101/2020.04.27.20081901","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Enhanced contact investigations for nine early travel-related cases of SARS-CoV-2 in the United States","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Intubation of SARS patients: infection and perspectives of healthcare workers","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Which preventive measures might protect health care workers from SARS?","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1101/2020.03.18.20034561","date":"1970-01-01","title":"High transmissibility of COVID-19 near symptom onset","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Association between 2019-nCoV transmission and N95 respirator use","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Lack of SARS transmission among public hospital workers, Vietnam","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Health care worker contact with MERS patient, Saudi Arabia","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Transmission of COVID-19 to health care personnel during exposures to a hospitalized patient: Solano County, California, February 2020","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Mild illness associated with severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus infection: lessons from a prospective seroepidemiologic study of health-care workers in a teaching hospital in Singapore","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Transmissibility of MERS-CoV infection in closed setting, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, 2015","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Risk of transmission via medical employees and importance of routine infection-prevention policy in a nosocomial outbreak of Middle East respiratory syndrome (MERS): a descriptive analysis from a tertiary care hospital in South Korea","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Transmission among healthcare worker contacts with a Middle East respiratory syndrome patient in a single Korean centre","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Surveillance of the Middle East respiratory syndrome (MERS) coronavirus (CoV) infection in healthcare workers after contact with confirmed MERS patients: incidence and risk factors of MERS-CoV seropositivity","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Probable secondary infections in households of SARS patients in Hong Kong","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Risk factors for SARS infection among hospital healthcare workers in Beijing: a case control study","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.13284/j.cnki.rddl.003228","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Analysis of the spatio-temporal characteristics and transmission path of COVID-19 cluster cases in Zhuhai","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"SARS among critical care nurses, Toronto","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"A case-control study on the risk factors of severe acute respiratory syndromes among health care workers","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Rapid awareness and transmission of severe acute respiratory syndrome in Hanoi French Hospital, Vietnam","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Risk factors for SARS infection within hospitals in Hanoi, Vietnam","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Transmission of the severe acute respiratory syndrome on aircraft","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Lack of SARS transmission among healthcare workers, United States","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Factors associated with transmission of Middle East respiratory syndrome among Korean healthcare workers: infection control via extended healthcare contact management in a secondary outbreak hospital","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Lack of SARS transmission and U.S. SARS case-patient","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Investigation of the influencing factors on severe acute respiratory syndrome among health care workers","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Duration and distance of exposure are important predictors of transmission among community contacts of Ontario SARS cases","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Contact investigation for imported case of Middle East respiratory syndrome, Germany","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Factors associated with nosocomial SARS-CoV transmission among healthcare workers in Hanoi, Vietnam, 2003","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Seroprevalence of Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus (MERS-CoV) in public health workers responding to a MERS outbreak in Seoul, Republic of Korea, in 2015","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Illness in intensive care staff after brief exposure to severe acute respiratory syndrome","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Effectiveness of precautions against droplets and contact in prevention of nosocomial transmission of severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS)","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Factors associated with transmission of severe acute respiratory syndrome among health-care workers in Singapore","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"SARS transmission in Vietnam outside of the health-care setting","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1101/2020.04.20.20064899","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Epidemiological characteristics of COVID-19 in medical staff members of neurosurgery departments in Hubei province: a multicentre descriptive study","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Lack of transmission among healthcare workers in contact with a case of Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus infection in Thailand","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Asymptomatic SARS coronavirus infection among healthcare workers, Singapore","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Cluster of SARS among medical students exposed to single patient, Hong Kong","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Risk factors for SARS among persons without known contact with SARS patients, Beijing, China","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Effectiveness of personal protective measures in prevention of nosocomial transmission of severe acute respiratory syndrome","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Temporal-spatial analysis of severe acute respiratory syndrome among hospital inpatients","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Why did outbreaks of severe acute respiratory syndrome occur in some hospital wards but not in others?","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Personal protective equipment for preventing highly infectious diseases due to exposure to contaminated body fluids in healthcare staff","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"A randomized clinical trial of three options for N95 respirators and medical masks in health workers","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Chapter eight: it's not about the mask: SARS Commission final report, volume 3","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Ontario issues final SARS Commission report","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"COVID-19: experts question guidance to reuse PPE","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/j.eng.2020.04.003","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Reuse of N95 Masks","abstract":"","id":"PMC7153525","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"THE AUTHOR. Published by Elsevier LTD on behalf of Chinese Academy of Engineering and Higher Education Press Limited Company.","authors":[{"firstname":"Dana","surname":"Mackenzie","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Face masks for the public during the covid-19 crisis","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1093/infdis/jiaa189","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Airborne or Droplet Precautions for Health Workers Treating Coronavirus Disease 2019?","abstract":"Cases of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) have been reported in more than 200 countries.\n Thousands of health workers have been infected, and outbreaks have occurred in hospitals, aged care facilities, and prisons.\n The World Health Organization (WHO) has issued guidelines for contact and droplet precautions for healthcare workers caring for suspected COVID-19 patients, whereas the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) has initially recommended airborne precautions.\n The 1- to 2-meter (?36 feet) rule of spatial separation is central to droplet precautions and assumes that large droplets do not travel further than 2 meters (?6 feet).\n We aimed to review the evidence for horizontal distance traveled by droplets and the guidelines issued by the WHO, CDC, and European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control on respiratory protection for COVID-19. We found that the evidence base for current guidelines is sparse, and the available data do not support the 1- to 2-meter (?36 feet) rule of spatial separation.\n Of 10 studies on horizontal droplet distance, 8 showed droplets travel more than 2 meters (?6 feet), in some cases up to 8 meters (?26 feet).\n Several studies of severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) support aerosol transmission, and 1 study documented virus at a distance of 4 meters (?13 feet) from the patient.\n Moreover, evidence suggests that infections cannot neatly be separated into the dichotomy of droplet versus airborne transmission routes.\n Available studies also show that SARS-CoV-2 can be detected in the air, and remain viable 3 hours after aerosolization.\n The weight of combined evidence supports airborne precautions for the occupational health and safety of health workers treating patients with COVID-19.","id":"PMC7184471","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Oxford University Press","authors":[{"firstname":"Prateek","surname":"Bahl","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Con","surname":"Doolan","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Con","surname":"Doolan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Charitha","surname":"de Silva","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Abrar Ahmad","surname":"Chughtai","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Lydia","surname":"Bourouiba","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"C Raina","surname":"MacIntyre","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.7326/M20-2306","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Ventilation Techniques and Risk for Transmission of Coronavirus Disease, Including COVID-19","abstract":"Background:\nMechanical ventilation is used to treat respiratory failure in coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19).\n\n\nPurpose:\nTo review multiple streams of evidence regarding the benefits and harms of ventilation techniques for coronavirus infections, including that causing COVID-19. (PROSPERO registration: CRD42020178187)\nData Sources:\n21 standard, World Health Organizationspecific and COVID-19specific databases, without language restrictions, until 1 May 2020.\nStudy Selection:\nStudies of any design and language comparing different oxygenation approaches in patients with coronavirus infections, including severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) or Middle East respiratory syndrome (MERS), or with hypoxemic respiratory failure.\n\n Animal, mechanistic, laboratory, and preclinical evidence was gathered regarding aerosol dispersion of coronavirus.\n\n Studies evaluating risk for virus transmission to health care workers from aerosol-generating procedures (AGPs) were included.\n\n\nData Extraction:\nIndependent and duplicate screening, data abstraction, and risk of bias assessment (GRADE for certainty of evidence and AMSTAR 2 for included systematic reviews).\n\n\nData Synthesis:\n123 studies were eligible (45 on COVID-19, 70 on SARS, 8 on MERS), but only 5 studies (1 on COVID-19, 3 on SARS, 1 on MERS) adjusted for important confounders.\n\n A study in hospitalized patients with COVID-19 reported slightly higher mortality with noninvasive ventilation (NIV) than with invasive mechanical ventilation (IMV), but 2 opposing studies, 1 in patients with MERS and 1 in patients with SARS, suggest a reduction in mortality with NIV (very low-certainty evidence).\n\n Two studies in patients with SARS report a reduction in mortality with NIV compared with no mechanical ventilation (low-certainty evidence).\n\n Two systematic reviews suggest a large reduction in mortality with NIV compared with conventional oxygen therapy.\n\n Other included studies suggest increased odds of transmission from AGPs.\n\n\nLimitation:\nDirect studies in COVID-19 are limited and poorly reported.\n\n\nConclusion:\nIndirect and low-certainty evidence suggests that use of NIV, similar to IMV, probably reduces mortality but may increase the risk for transmission of COVID-19 to health care workers.\n\n\nPrimary Funding Source:\nWorld Health Organization.\n\n\n","id":"PMC7281716","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"American College of Physicians","authors":[{"firstname":"Holger J.","surname":"Schnemann","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Joanne","surname":"Khabsa","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Karla","surname":"Solo","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Assem M.","surname":"Khamis","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Romina","surname":"Brignardello-Petersen","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Amena","surname":"El-Harakeh","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Andrea","surname":"Darzi","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Anisa","surname":"Hajizadeh","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Antonio","surname":"Bognanni","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Anna","surname":"Bak","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ariel","surname":"Izcovich","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Carlos A.","surname":"Cuello-Garcia","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Chen","surname":"Chen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ewa","surname":"Borowiack","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Fatimah","surname":"Chamseddine","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Finn","surname":"Schnemann","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Gian Paolo","surname":"Morgano","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Giovanna E.U.","surname":"Muti-Schnemann","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Guang","surname":"Chen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hong","surname":"Zhao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ignacio","surname":"Neumann","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jan","surname":"Brozek","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Joel","surname":"Schmidt","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Layal","surname":"Hneiny","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Leila","surname":"Harrison","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Marge","surname":"Reinap","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Mats","surname":"Junek","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Nancy","surname":"Santesso","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Rayane","surname":"El-Khoury","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Rebecca","surname":"Thomas","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Robby","surname":"Nieuwlaat","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Rosa","surname":"Stalteri","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Sally","surname":"Yaacoub","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Tamara","surname":"Lotfi","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Tejan","surname":"Baldeh","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Thomas","surname":"Piggott","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yuan","surname":"Zhang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zahra","surname":"Saad","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Bram","surname":"Rochwerg","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Dan","surname":"Perri","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Eddy","surname":"Fan","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Florian","surname":"Stehling","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Imad Bou","surname":"Akl","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Mark","surname":"Loeb","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Paul","surname":"Garner","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Stephen","surname":"Aston","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Waleed","surname":"Alhazzani","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Wojciech","surname":"Szczeklik","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Derek K.","surname":"Chu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Elie A.","surname":"Akl","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Respiratory virus shedding in exhaled breath and efficacy of face masks","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Coronavirus Source Data","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"World Bank Country and Lending Groups","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"10.1002/sim.4780131009","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Confidence intervals for weighted proportions","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/j.ijid.2020.03.031","date":"2020-03-10","title":"Transmission potential and severity of COVID-19 in South Korea","abstract":"\n\n\n\nCOVID-19 caused 6284 cases and 42 deaths in South Korea as of March 6, 2020.","id":"PMC7118661","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd on behalf of International Society for Infectious Diseases.","authors":[{"firstname":"Eunha","surname":"Shim","email":"alicia@ssu.ac.kr","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Amna","surname":"Tariq","email":"atariq1@student.gsu.edu","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Wongyeong","surname":"Choi","email":"chok10004@soongsil.ac.kr","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Yiseul","surname":"Lee","email":"ylee97@student.gsu.edu","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Gerardo","surname":"Chowell","email":"gchowell@gsu.edu","contributions":"0"}],"References depth 2":[{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Fitting dynamic models to epidemic outbreaks with quantified uncertainty: a primer for parameter uncertainty, identifiability, and forecasts","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Transmission characteristics of MERS and SARS in the healthcare setting: a comparative study","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Preliminary epidemiological assessment of MERS-CoV outbreak in South Korea, May to June 2015","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The effective reproduction number as a prelude to statistical estimation of time-dependent epidemic trends","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Early phylogenetic estimate of the effective reproduction number Of Sars-CoV-2","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Early transmission dynamics in Wuhan, China, of novel coronavirus-infected pneumonia","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Transmission potential of the novel coronavirus (COVID-19) onboard the Diamond Princess Cruises Ship, 2020","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Early epidemiological assessment of the transmission potential and virulence of 2019 Novel Coronavirus in Wuhan City: China, 2019-2020","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Early transmission dynamics of Ebola virus disease (EVD), West Africa, March to August 2014","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The ideal reporting interval for an epidemic to objectively interpret the epidemiological time course","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Serial interval of novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV) infections","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Estimation of the reproduction number for 2009 pandemic influenza A(H1N1) in the presence of imported cases","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Transmissibility of 2009 pandemic influenza A(H1N1) in New Zealand: effective reproduction number and influence of age, ethnicity and importations","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Novel coronavirus 2019-nCoV: early estimation of epidemiological parameters and epidemic predictions","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Real-time forecasts of the COVID-19 epidemic in China from Feb 5 to Feb 24, 2020","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"[An update on the epidemiological characteristics of novel coronavirus pneumoniaCOVID-19]","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Real-time monitoring the transmission potential of COVID-19 in Singapore, February 2020","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Assessing reporting delays and the effective reproduction number: the Ebola epidemic in DRC, May 2018-January 2019","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"A generalized-growth model to characterize the early ascending phase of infectious disease outbreaks","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Nowcasting and forecasting the potential domestic and international spread of the 2019-nCoV outbreak originating in Wuhan, China: a modelling study","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Estimation of the Time-Varying Reproduction Number of COVID-19 Outbreak in China","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Estimation of the reproductive number of Novel Coronavirus (COVID-19) and the probable outbreak size on the Diamond Princess cruise ship: a data-driven analysis","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Preliminary prediction of the basic reproduction number of the Wuhan novel coronavirus 2019-nCoV","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]}]},{"doi":"10.1001/jamainternmed.2020.2020","date":"2020-04-21","title":"Contact Tracing Assessment of COVID-19 Transmission Dynamics in Taiwan and Risk at Different Exposure Periods Before and After Symptom Onset","abstract":"Question\nWhat is the transmissibility of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) to close contacts?\nFindings\nIn this case-ascertained study of 100 cases of confirmed COVID-19 and 2761 close contacts, the overall secondary clinical attack rate was 0.7%.\n\n The attack rate was higher among contacts whose exposure to the index case started within 5 days of symptom onset than those who were exposed later.\n\n\nMeaning\nHigh transmissibility of COVID-19 before and immediately after symptom onset suggests that finding and isolating symptomatic patients alone may not suffice to interrupt transmission, and that more generalized measures might be required, such as social distancing.\n\n\n","id":"PMC7195694","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"American Medical Association","authors":[{"firstname":"Hao-Yuan","surname":"Cheng","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Shu-Wan","surname":"Jian","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ding-Ping","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ta-Chou","surname":"Ng","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Wan-Ting","surname":"Huang","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Hsien-Ho","surname":"Lin","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}],"References depth 2":[{"doi":"10.1056/NEJMoa2001017","date":"1970-01-01","title":"A Novel Coronavirus from Patients with Pneumonia in China, 2019","abstract":"In December 2019, a cluster of patients with pneumonia of unknown cause was linked to a seafood wholesale market in Wuhan, China.\n A previously unknown betacoronavirus was discovered through the use of unbiased sequencing in samples from patients with pneumonia.\n Human airway epithelial cells were used to isolate a novel coronavirus, named 2019-nCoV, which formed a clade within the subgenus sarbecovirus, Orthocoronavirinae subfamily.\n Different from both MERS-CoV and SARS-CoV, 2019-nCoV is the seventh member of the family of coronaviruses that infect humans.\n Enhanced surveillance and further investigation are ongoing.\n (Funded by the National Key Research and Development Program of China and the National Major Project for Control and Prevention of Infectious Disease in China.\n)","id":"PMC7092803","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Massachusetts Medical Society","authors":[{"firstname":"Na","surname":"Zhu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Dingyu","surname":"Zhang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Wenling","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xingwang","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Bo","surname":"Yang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jingdong","surname":"Song","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xiang","surname":"Zhao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Baoying","surname":"Huang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Weifeng","surname":"Shi","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Roujian","surname":"Lu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Peihua","surname":"Niu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Faxian","surname":"Zhan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xuejun","surname":"Ma","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Dayan","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Wenbo","surname":"Xu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Guizhen","surname":"Wu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"George F.","surname":"Gao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Wenjie","surname":"Tan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":" Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) situation report:48. Published March 8, 2020. Accessed April 5, 2020. https://www.who.int/docs/default-source/coronaviruse/situation-reports/20200308-sitrep-48-covid-19.pdf?sfvrsn=16f7ccef_4","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1056/NEJMp2002125","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Defining the epidemiology of Covid-19:studies needed","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/j.ijid.2020.02.060","date":"2020-02-27","title":"Serial interval of novel coronavirus (COVID-19) infections","abstract":"\n\n\n\nThe serial interval of novel coronavirus (COVID-19) infections was estimated from a total of 28 infector-infectee pairs.\n","id":"PMC7128842","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd on behalf of International Society for Infectious Diseases.","authors":[{"firstname":"Hiroshi","surname":"Nishiura","email":"nishiurah@med.hokudai.ac.jp","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Natalie M.","surname":"Linton","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Andrei R.","surname":"Akhmetzhanov","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1056/NEJMc2001737","date":"1970-01-01","title":"SARS-CoV-2 Viral Load in Upper Respiratory Specimens of Infected Patients","abstract":"","id":"PMC7121626","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Massachusetts Medical Society","authors":[{"firstname":"Lirong","surname":"Zou","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Feng","surname":"Ruan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Feng","surname":"Ruan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Mingxing","surname":"Huang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Mingxing","surname":"Huang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Lijun","surname":"Liang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Lijun","surname":"Liang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Huitao","surname":"Huang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Huitao","surname":"Huang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zhongsi","surname":"Hong","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zhongsi","surname":"Hong","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jianxiang","surname":"Yu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jianxiang","surname":"Yu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Min","surname":"Kang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yingchao","surname":"Song","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jinyu","surname":"Xia","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jinyu","surname":"Xia","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Qianfang","surname":"Guo","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Qianfang","surname":"Guo","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Tie","surname":"Song","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jianfeng","surname":"He","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hui-Ling","surname":"Yen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hui-Ling","surname":"Yen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Malik","surname":"Peiris","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jie","surname":"Wu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jie","surname":"Wu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1016/S1473-3099(20)30113-4","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Viral load of SARS-CoV-2 in clinical samples","abstract":"","id":"PMC7128099","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Elsevier Ltd.","authors":[{"firstname":"Yang","surname":"Pan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Daitao","surname":"Zhang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Peng","surname":"Yang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Leo L M","surname":"Poon","email":"llmpoon@hku.hk","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Quanyi","surname":"Wang","email":"bjcdcxm@126.com","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.3201/eid2606.200239","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Community Transmission of Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus 2, Shenzhen, China, 2020","abstract":"Since early January 2020, after the outbreak of coronavirus infection in Wuhan, China, ?365 confirmed cases have been reported in Shenzhen, China.\n The mode of community and intrafamily transmission is threatening residents in Shenzhen.\n Strategies to strengthen prevention and interruption of these transmissions should be urgently addressed.\n ","id":"PMC7258448","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Centers for Disease Control and Prevention","authors":[{"firstname":"Jiaye","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Xuejiao","surname":"Liao","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Shen","surname":"Qian","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jing","surname":"Yuan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Fuxiang","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yingxia","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zhaoqin","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Fu-Sheng","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Lei","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zheng","surname":"Zhang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.15585/mmwr.mm6905e1","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Initial Public Health Response and Interim Clinical Guidance for the 2019 Novel Coronavirus Outbreak  United States, December 31, 2019February 4, 2020","abstract":"","id":"PMC7004396","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Centers for Disease Control and Prevention","authors":[{"firstname":"Anita","surname":"Patel","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Daniel B.","surname":"Jernigan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"NULL","surname":"NULL","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"NULL","surname":"NULL","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"NULL","surname":"NULL","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Fatuma","surname":"Abdirizak","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Glen","surname":"Abedi","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Sharad","surname":"Aggarwal","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Denise","surname":"Albina","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Elizabeth","surname":"Allen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Lauren","surname":"Andersen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jade","surname":"Anderson","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Megan","surname":"Anderson","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Tara","surname":"Anderson","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Kayla","surname":"Anderson","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ana Cecilia","surname":"Bardossy","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Vaughn","surname":"Barry","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Karlyn","surname":"Beer","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Michael","surname":"Bell","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Sherri","surname":"Berger","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Joseph","surname":"Bertulfo","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Holly","surname":"Biggs","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jennifer","surname":"Bornemann","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Josh","surname":"Bornstein","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Willie","surname":"Bower","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Joseph","surname":"Bresee","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Clive","surname":"Brown","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Alicia","surname":"Budd","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jennifer","surname":"Buigut","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Stephen","surname":"Burke","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Rachel","surname":"Burke","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Erin","surname":"Burns","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jay","surname":"Butler","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Russell","surname":"Cantrell","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Cristina","surname":"Cardemil","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jordan","surname":"Cates","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Marty","surname":"Cetron","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Kevin","surname":"Chatham-Stephens","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Kevin","surname":"Chatham-Stevens","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Nora","surname":"Chea","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Bryan","surname":"Christensen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Victoria","surname":"Chu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Kevin","surname":"Clarke","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Angela","surname":"Cleveland","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Nicole","surname":"Cohen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Max","surname":"Cohen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Amanda","surname":"Cohn","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jennifer","surname":"Collins","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Rebecca","surname":"Dahl","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Walter","surname":"Daley","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Vishal","surname":"Dasari","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Elizabeth","surname":"Davlantes","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Patrick","surname":"Dawson","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Lisa","surname":"Delaney","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Matthew","surname":"Donahue","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Chad","surname":"Dowell","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jonathan","surname":"Dyal","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"William","surname":"Edens","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Rachel","surname":"Eidex","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Lauren","surname":"Epstein","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Mary","surname":"Evans","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ryan","surname":"Fagan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Kevin","surname":"Farris","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Leora","surname":"Feldstein","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"LeAnne","surname":"Fox","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Mark","surname":"Frank","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Brandi","surname":"Freeman","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Alicia","surname":"Fry","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"James","surname":"Fuller","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Romeo","surname":"Galang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Sue","surname":"Gerber","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Runa","surname":"Gokhale","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Sue","surname":"Goldstein","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Sue","surname":"Gorman","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"William","surname":"Gregg","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"William","surname":"Greim","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Steven","surname":"Grube","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Aron","surname":"Hall","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Amber","surname":"Haynes","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Sherrasa","surname":"Hill","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jennifer","surname":"Hornsby-Myers","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jennifer","surname":"Hunter","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Christopher","surname":"Ionta","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Cheryl","surname":"Isenhour","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Max","surname":"Jacobs","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Kara Jacobs","surname":"Slifka","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Daniel","surname":"Jernigan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Michael","surname":"Jhung","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jamie","surname":"Jones-Wormley","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Anita","surname":"Kambhampati","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Shifaq","surname":"Kamili","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Pamela","surname":"Kennedy","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Charlotte","surname":"Kent","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Marie","surname":"Killerby","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Lindsay","surname":"Kim","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hannah","surname":"Kirking","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Lisa","surname":"Koonin","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ram","surname":"Koppaka","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Christine","surname":"Kosmos","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"David","surname":"Kuhar","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Wendi","surname":"Kuhnert-Tallman","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Stephanie","surname":"Kujawski","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Archana","surname":"Kumar","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Alexander","surname":"Landon","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Leslie","surname":"Lee","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jessica","surname":"Leung","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Stephen","surname":"Lindstrom","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ruth","surname":"Link-Gelles","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Joana","surname":"Lively","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xiaoyan","surname":"Lu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Brian","surname":"Lynch","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Lakshmi","surname":"Malapati","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Samantha","surname":"Mandel","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Brian","surname":"Manns","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Nina","surname":"Marano","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Mariel","surname":"Marlow","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Barbara","surname":"Marston","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Nancy","surname":"McClung","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Liz","surname":"McClure","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Emily","surname":"McDonald","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Oliva","surname":"McGovern","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Nancy","surname":"Messonnier","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Claire","surname":"Midgley","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Danielle","surname":"Moulia","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Janna","surname":"Murray","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Kate","surname":"Noelte","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Michelle","surname":"Noonan-Smith","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Kristen","surname":"Nordlund","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Emily","surname":"Norton","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Sara","surname":"Oliver","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Mark","surname":"Pallansch","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Umesh","surname":"Parashar","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Anita","surname":"Patel","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Manisha","surname":"Patel","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Kristen","surname":"Pettrone","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Taran","surname":"Pierce","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Harald","surname":"Pietz","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Satish","surname":"Pillai","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Lewis","surname":"Radonovich","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Sarah","surname":"Reagan-Steiner","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Amy","surname":"Reel","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Heather","surname":"Reese","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Brian","surname":"Rha","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Philip","surname":"Ricks","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Melissa","surname":"Rolfes","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Shahrokh","surname":"Roohi","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Lauren","surname":"Roper","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Lisa","surname":"Rotz","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Janell","surname":"Routh","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Senthil Kumar","surname":"Sakthivel","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Luisa","surname":"Sarmiento","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jessica","surname":"Schindelar","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Eileen","surname":"Schneider","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Anne","surname":"Schuchat","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Sarah","surname":"Scott","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Varun","surname":"Shetty","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Caitlin","surname":"Shockey","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jill","surname":"Shugart","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Mark","surname":"Stenger","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Matthew","surname":"Stuckey","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Brittany","surname":"Sunshine","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Tamara","surname":"Sykes","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jonathan","surname":"Trapp","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Timothy","surname":"Uyeki","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Grace","surname":"Vahey","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Amy","surname":"Valderrama","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Julie","surname":"Villanueva","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Tunicia","surname":"Walker","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Megan","surname":"Wallace","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Lijuan","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"John","surname":"Watson","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Angie","surname":"Weber","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Cindy","surname":"Weinbaum","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"William","surname":"Weldon","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Caroline","surname":"Westnedge","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Brett","surname":"Whitaker","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Michael","surname":"Whitaker","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Alcia","surname":"Williams","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Holly","surname":"Williams","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ian","surname":"Willams","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Karen","surname":"Wong","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Amy","surname":"Xie","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Anna","surname":"Yousef","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":" Report of the WHO-China joint mission on coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19). Published February 28, 2020. Accessed April 5, 2020. https://www.who.int/docs/default-source/coronaviruse/who-china-joint-mission-on-covid-19-final-report.pdf","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/j.jfma.2020.02.007","date":"2020-02-18","title":"First case of Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) pneumonia in Taiwan","abstract":"An outbreak of respiratory illness proved to be infected by a 2019 novel coronavirus, officially named Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19), was notified first in Wuhan, China, and has spread rapidly in China and to other parts of the world.\n Herein, we reported the first confirmed case of novel coronavirus pneumonia (NCP) imported from China in Taiwan.\n This case report revealed a natural course of NCP with self-recovery, which may be a good example in comparison with medical treatments.\n","id":"PMC7127252","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Formosan Medical Association. Published by Elsevier Taiwan LLC.","authors":[{"firstname":"Shao-Chung","surname":"Cheng","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Yuan-Chia","surname":"Chang","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Yu-Long","surname":"Fan Chiang","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Yu-Chan","surname":"Chien","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Mingte","surname":"Cheng","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Chin-Hua","surname":"Yang","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Chia-Husn","surname":"Huang","email":"4719@mail.tygh.gov.tw","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Yuan-Nian","surname":"Hsu","email":"kingjen@mail.tygh.gov.tw","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.1016/j.jfma.2020.03.007","date":"2020-03-15","title":"Initial rapid and proactive response for the COVID-19 outbreak  Taiwan's experience","abstract":"","id":"PMC7118675","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Formosan Medical Association. Published by Elsevier Taiwan LLC.","authors":[{"firstname":"Hao-Yuan","surname":"Cheng","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Shu-Ying","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Chin-Hui","surname":"Yang","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.1001/jama.2020.3151","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Response to COVID-19 in Taiwan","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/S0140-6736(07)61602-X","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The Strengthening the Reporting of Observational Studies in Epidemiology (STROBE) statement: guidelines for reporting observational studies","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Taiwan Legislative Yuan. The Communicable Disease Control Act. Accessed April 18, 2020. https://law.moj.gov.tw/ENG/LawClass/LawAll.aspx?pcode=L0050001","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.2807/1560-7917.ES.2020.25.3.2000045","date":"2020-01-22","title":"Detection of 2019 novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV) by real-time RT-PCR","abstract":"Background\nThe ongoing outbreak of the recently emerged novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV) poses a challenge for public health laboratories as virus isolates are unavailable while there is growing evidence that the outbreak is more widespread than initially thought, and international spread through travellers does already occur.\n\n\nAim\nWe aimed to develop and deploy robust diagnostic methodology for use in public health laboratory settings without having virus material available.\n\n\nMethods\nHere we present a validated diagnostic workflow for 2019-nCoV, its design relying on close genetic relatedness of 2019-nCoV with SARS coronavirus, making use of synthetic nucleic acid technology.\n\n\nResults\nThe workflow reliably detects 2019-nCoV, and further discriminates 2019-nCoV from SARS-CoV.\n\n Through coordination between academic and public laboratories, we confirmed assay exclusivity based on 297 original clinical specimens containing a full spectrum of human respiratory viruses.\n\n Control material is made available through European Virus Archive  Global (EVAg), a European Union infrastructure project.\n\n\nConclusion\nThe present study demonstrates the enormous response capacity achieved through coordination of academic and public laboratories in national and European research networks.\n\n\n","id":"PMC6988269","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC)","authors":[{"firstname":"Victor M","surname":"Corman","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Olfert","surname":"Landt","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Marco","surname":"Kaiser","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Richard","surname":"Molenkamp","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Adam","surname":"Meijer","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Daniel KW","surname":"Chu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Tobias","surname":"Bleicker","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Sebastian","surname":"Brnink","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Julia","surname":"Schneider","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Marie Luisa","surname":"Schmidt","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Daphne GJC","surname":"Mulders","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Bart L","surname":"Haagmans","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Bas","surname":"van der Veer","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Sharon","surname":"van den Brink","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Lisa","surname":"Wijsman","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Gabriel","surname":"Goderski","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jean-Louis","surname":"Romette","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Joanna","surname":"Ellis","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Maria","surname":"Zambon","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Malik","surname":"Peiris","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Herman","surname":"Goossens","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Chantal","surname":"Reusken","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Marion PG","surname":"Koopmans","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Christian","surname":"Drosten","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1089/hs.2016.0107","date":"2017-02-08","title":"Real-Time Surveillance of Infectious Diseases: Taiwan's Experience","abstract":"Integration of multiple surveillance systems advances early warning and supports better decision making during infectious disease events.\n Taiwan has a comprehensive network of laboratory, epidemiologic, and early warning surveillance systems with nationwide representation.\n Hospitals and clinical laboratories have deployed automatic reporting mechanisms since 2014 and have effectively improved timeliness of infectious disease and laboratory data reporting.\n In June 2016, the capacity of real-time surveillance in Taiwan was externally assessed and was found to have a demonstrated and sustainable capability.\n We describe Taiwan's disease surveillance system and use surveillance efforts for influenza and Zika virus as examples of surveillance capability.\n Timely and integrated influenza information showed a higher level and extended pattern of influenza activity during the 2015-16 season, which ensured prompt information dissemination and the coordination of response operations.\n Taiwan also has well-developed disease detection systems and was the first country to report imported cases of Zika virus from Miami Beach and Singapore.\n This illustrates a high level of awareness and willingness among health workers to report emerging infectious diseases, and highlights the robust and sensitive nature of Taiwan's surveillance system.\n These 2 examples demonstrate the flexibility of the surveillance systems in Taiwan to adapt to emerging infectious diseases and major communicable diseases.\n Through participation in the GHSA, Taiwan can more actively collaborate with national counterparts and use its expertise to strengthen global and regional surveillance capacity in the Asia Pacific and in Southeast Asia, in order to advance a world safe and secure from infectious disease.\n","id":"PMC5404256","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Mary Ann Liebert, Inc.","authors":[{"firstname":"Shu-Wan","surname":"Jian","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Chiu-Mei","surname":"Chen","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Cheng-Yi","surname":"Lee","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ding-Ping","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":" Clinical management of severe acute respiratory infection when COVID-19 is suspected. Published March 13, 2020. Accessed April 5, 2020. https://www.who.int/publications-detail/clinical-management-of-severe-acute-respiratory-infection-when-novel-coronavirus-(ncov)-infection-is-suspected","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":" Infectious disease contact tracing platform and management system. Accessed April 18, 2020. https://www.cdc.gov.tw/Professional/ProgramResultInfo/LeYn5b0UwF_lgvjR5rhT-A?programResultId=I2JMxghoGbL10LOSBG3h5Q","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":" The First Few X (FFX) Cases and contact investigation protocol for 2019-novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV) infection. Published January 29, 2020. Accessed April 5, 2020. https://www.who.int/publications-detail/the-first-few-x-(ffx)-cases-and-contact-investigation-protocol-for-2019-novel-coronavirus-(2019-ncov)-infection","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1126/science.1086616","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Transmission dynamics and control of severe acute respiratory syndrome","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1038/s41586-020-2196-x","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Virological assessment of hospitalized patients with COVID-2019","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/S0140-6736(20)30183-5","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Clinical features of patients infected with 2019 novel coronavirus in Wuhan, China","abstract":"Background\nA recent cluster of pneumonia cases in Wuhan, China, was caused by a novel betacoronavirus, the 2019 novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV).\n\n We report the epidemiological, clinical, laboratory, and radiological characteristics and treatment and clinical outcomes of these patients.\n\n\nMethods\nAll patients with suspected 2019-nCoV were admitted to a designated hospital in Wuhan.\n\n We prospectively collected and analysed data on patients with laboratory-confirmed 2019-nCoV infection by real-time RT-PCR and next-generation sequencing.\n\n Data were obtained with standardised data collection forms shared by WHO and the International Severe Acute Respiratory and Emerging Infection Consortium from electronic medical records.\n\n Researchers also directly communicated with patients or their families to ascertain epidemiological and symptom data.\n\n Outcomes were also compared between patients who had been admitted to the intensive care unit (ICU) and those who had not.\n\n\nFindings\nBy Jan 2, 2020, 41 admitted hospital patients had been identified as having laboratory-confirmed 2019-nCoV infection.\n\n Most of the infected patients were men (30 [73%] of 41); less than half had underlying diseases (13 [32%]), including diabetes (eight [20%]), hypertension (six [15%]), and cardiovascular disease (six [15%]).\n\n Median age was 490 years (IQR 410580).\n\n 27 (66%) of 41 patients had been exposed to Huanan seafood market.\n\n One family cluster was found.\n\n Common symptoms at onset of illness were fever (40 [98%] of 41 patients), cough (31 [76%]), and myalgia or fatigue (18 [44%]); less common symptoms were sputum production (11 [28%] of 39), headache (three [8%] of 38), haemoptysis (two [5%] of 39), and diarrhoea (one [3%] of 38).\n\n Dyspnoea developed in 22 (55%) of 40 patients (median time from illness onset to dyspnoea 80 days [IQR 50130]).\n\n 26 (63%) of 41 patients had lymphopenia.\n\n All 41 patients had pneumonia with abnormal findings on chest CT.\n\n Complications included acute respiratory distress syndrome (12 [29%]), RNAaemia (six [15%]), acute cardiac injury (five [12%]) and secondary infection (four [10%]).\n\n 13 (32%) patients were admitted to an ICU and six (15%) died.\n\n Compared with non-ICU patients, ICU patients had higher plasma levels of IL2, IL7, IL10, GSCF, IP10, MCP1, MIP1A, and TNF?.\n\n\nInterpretation\nThe 2019-nCoV infection caused clusters of severe respiratory illness similar to severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus and was associated with ICU admission and high mortality.\n\n Major gaps in our knowledge of the origin, epidemiology, duration of human transmission, and clinical spectrum of disease need fulfilment by future studies.\n\n\nFunding\nMinistry of Science and Technology, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences, National Natural Science Foundation of China, and Beijing Municipal Science and Technology Commission.\n\n\n","id":"PMC7159299","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Elsevier Ltd.","authors":[{"firstname":"Chaolin","surname":"Huang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yeming","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xingwang","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Lili","surname":"Ren","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jianping","surname":"Zhao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yi","surname":"Hu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Li","surname":"Zhang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Guohui","surname":"Fan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jiuyang","surname":"Xu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xiaoying","surname":"Gu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zhenshun","surname":"Cheng","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ting","surname":"Yu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jiaan","surname":"Xia","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yuan","surname":"Wei","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Wenjuan","surname":"Wu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xuelei","surname":"Xie","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Wen","surname":"Yin","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hui","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Min","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yan","surname":"Xiao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hong","surname":"Gao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Li","surname":"Guo","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jungang","surname":"Xie","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Guangfa","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Rongmeng","surname":"Jiang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zhancheng","surname":"Gao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Qi","surname":"Jin","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jianwei","surname":"Wang","email":"wangjw28@163.com","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Bin","surname":"Cao","email":"caobin_ben@163.com","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1001/jama.2020.1585","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Clinical characteristics of 138 hospitalized patients with 2019 novel coronavirus-infected pneumonia in Wuhan, China","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/S2214-109X(20)30074-7","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Feasibility of controlling COVID-19 outbreaks by isolation of cases and contacts","abstract":"Background\nIsolation of cases and contact tracing is used to control outbreaks of infectious diseases, and has been used for coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19).\n\n Whether this strategy will achieve control depends on characteristics of both the pathogen and the response.\n\n Here we use a mathematical model to assess if isolation and contact tracing are able to control onwards transmission from imported cases of COVID-19.\nMethods\nWe developed a stochastic transmission model, parameterised to the COVID-19 outbreak.\n\n We used the model to quantify the potential effectiveness of contact tracing and isolation of cases at controlling a severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2)-like pathogen.\n\n We considered scenarios that varied in the number of initial cases, the basic reproduction number (R0), the delay from symptom onset to isolation, the probability that contacts were traced, the proportion of transmission that occurred before symptom onset, and the proportion of subclinical infections.\n\n We assumed isolation prevented all further transmission in the model.\n\n Outbreaks were deemed controlled if transmission ended within 12 weeks or before 5000 cases in total.\n\n We measured the success of controlling outbreaks using isolation and contact tracing, and quantified the weekly maximum number of cases traced to measure feasibility of public health effort.\n\n\nFindings\nSimulated outbreaks starting with five initial cases, an R0 of 15, and 0% transmission before symptom onset could be controlled even with low contact tracing probability; however, the probability of controlling an outbreak decreased with the number of initial cases, when R0 was 25 or 35 and with more transmission before symptom onset.\n\n Across different initial numbers of cases, the majority of scenarios with an R0 of 15 were controllable with less than 50% of contacts successfully traced.\n\n To control the majority of outbreaks, for R0 of 25 more than 70% of contacts had to be traced, and for an R0 of 35 more than 90% of contacts had to be traced.\n\n The delay between symptom onset and isolation had the largest role in determining whether an outbreak was controllable when R0 was 15. For R0 values of 25 or 35, if there were 40 initial cases, contact tracing and isolation were only potentially feasible when less than 1% of transmission occurred before symptom onset.\n\n\nInterpretation\nIn most scenarios, highly effective contact tracing and case isolation is enough to control a new outbreak of COVID-19 within 3 months.\n\n The probability of control decreases with long delays from symptom onset to isolation, fewer cases ascertained by contact tracing, and increasing transmission before symptoms.\n\n This model can be modified to reflect updated transmission characteristics and more specific definitions of outbreak control to assess the potential success of local response efforts.\n\n\nFunding\nWellcome Trust, Global Challenges Research Fund, and Health Data Research UK.\n\n\n","id":"PMC7097845","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd.","authors":[{"firstname":"Joel","surname":"Hellewell","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Sam","surname":"Abbott","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Amy","surname":"Gimma","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Nikos I","surname":"Bosse","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Christopher I","surname":"Jarvis","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Timothy W","surname":"Russell","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"James D","surname":"Munday","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Adam J","surname":"Kucharski","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"W John","surname":"Edmunds","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Fiona","surname":"Sun","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Stefan","surname":"Flasche","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Billy J","surname":"Quilty","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Nicholas","surname":"Davies","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yang","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Samuel","surname":"Clifford","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Petra","surname":"Klepac","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Mark","surname":"Jit","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Charlie","surname":"Diamond","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hamish","surname":"Gibbs","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Kevin","surname":"van Zandvoort","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Sebastian","surname":"Funk","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Sebastian","surname":"Funk","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Sebastian","surname":"Funk","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Rosalind M","surname":"Eggo","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":" Home care for patients with COVID-19 presenting with mild symptoms and management of their contacts. Published March 17, 2020. Assessed April 5, 2020. https://www.who.int/publications-detail/home-care-for-patients-with-suspected-novel-coronavirus-(ncov)-infection-presenting-with-mild-symptoms-and-management-of-contacts","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1001/jama.2020.2648","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Characteristics of and important lessons from the coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) outbreak in China: summary of a report of 72 314 cases from the Chinese Center for Disease Control and Prevention","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/S2214-109X(20)30068-1","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Potential association between COVID-19 mortality and health-care resource availability","abstract":"","id":"PMC7128131","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd.","authors":[{"firstname":"Yunpeng","surname":"Ji","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Zhongren","surname":"Ma","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Maikel P","surname":"Peppelenbosch","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Qiuwei","surname":"Pan","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.1056/NEJMoa2001316","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Early Transmission Dynamics in Wuhan, China, of Novel CoronavirusInfected Pneumonia","abstract":"Background\nThe initial cases of novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV)infected pneumonia (NCIP) occurred in Wuhan, Hubei Province, China, in December 2019 and January 2020. We analyzed data on the first 425 confirmed cases in Wuhan to determine the epidemiologic characteristics of NCIP.\n\n\nMethods\nWe collected information on demographic characteristics, exposure history, and illness timelines of laboratory-confirmed cases of NCIP that had been reported by January 22, 2020. We described characteristics of the cases and estimated the key epidemiologic time-delay distributions.\n\n In the early period of exponential growth, we estimated the epidemic doubling time and the basic reproductive number.\n\n\nResults\nAmong the first 425 patients with confirmed NCIP, the median age was 59 years and 56% were male.\n\n The majority of cases (55%) with onset before January 1, 2020, were linked to the Huanan Seafood Wholesale Market, as compared with 8.6% of the subsequent cases.\n\n The mean incubation period was 5.2 days (95% confidence interval [CI], 4.1 to 7.0), with the 95th percentile of the distribution at 12.5 days.\n\n In its early stages, the epidemic doubled in size every 7.4 days.\n\n With a mean serial interval of 7.5 days (95% CI, 5.3 to 19), the basic reproductive number was estimated to be 2.2 (95% CI, 1.4 to 3.9).\n\n\nConclusions\nOn the basis of this information, there is evidence that human-to-human transmission has occurred among close contacts since the middle of December 2019. Considerable efforts to reduce transmission will be required to control outbreaks if similar dynamics apply elsewhere.\n\n Measures to prevent or reduce transmission should be implemented in populations at risk.\n\n (Funded by the Ministry of Science and Technology of China and others.\n\n)\n","id":"PMC7121484","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Massachusetts Medical Society","authors":[{"firstname":"Qun","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xuhua","surname":"Guan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Peng","surname":"Wu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xiaoye","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Lei","surname":"Zhou","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yeqing","surname":"Tong","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ruiqi","surname":"Ren","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Kathy S.M.","surname":"Leung","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Eric H.Y.","surname":"Lau","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jessica Y.","surname":"Wong","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xuesen","surname":"Xing","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Nijuan","surname":"Xiang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yang","surname":"Wu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Chao","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Qi","surname":"Chen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Dan","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Tian","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jing","surname":"Zhao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Man","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Wenxiao","surname":"Tu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Chuding","surname":"Chen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Lianmei","surname":"Jin","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Rui","surname":"Yang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Qi","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Suhua","surname":"Zhou","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Rui","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hui","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yinbo","surname":"Luo","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yuan","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ge","surname":"Shao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Huan","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zhongfa","surname":"Tao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yang","surname":"Yang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zhiqiang","surname":"Deng","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Boxi","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zhitao","surname":"Ma","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yanping","surname":"Zhang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Guoqing","surname":"Shi","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Tommy T.Y.","surname":"Lam","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Joseph T.","surname":"Wu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"George F.","surname":"Gao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Benjamin J.","surname":"Cowling","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Bo","surname":"Yang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Bo","surname":"Yang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Gabriel M.","surname":"Leung","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zijian","surname":"Feng","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.3390/jcm9030657","date":"2020-02-25","title":"Backcalculating the Incidence of Infection with COVID-19 on the Diamond Princess","abstract":"To understand the time-dependent risk of infection on a cruise ship, the Diamond Princess, I estimated the incidence of infection with novel coronavirus (COVID-19).\n The epidemic curve of a total of 199 confirmed cases was drawn, classifying individuals into passengers with and without close contact and crew members.\n A backcalculation method was employed to estimate the incidence of infection.\n The peak time of infection was seen for the time period from 2 to 4 February 2020, and the incidence has abruptly declined afterwards.\n The estimated number of new infections among passengers without close contact was very small from 5 February on which a movement restriction policy was imposed.\n Without the intervention from 5 February, it was predicted that the cumulative incidence with and without close contact would have been as large as 1373 (95% CI: 570, 2176) and 766 (95% CI: 587, 946) cases, respectively, while these were kept to be 102 and 47 cases, respectively.\n Based on an analysis of illness onset data on board, the risk of infection among passengers without close contact was considered to be very limited.\n Movement restriction greatly reduced the number of infections from 5 February onwards.\n","id":"PMC7141332","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"MDPI","authors":[{"firstname":"Hiroshi","surname":"Nishiura","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1001/jama.2020.3227","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Air, surface environmental, and personal protective equipment contamination by severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) from a symptomatic patient","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1093/cid/civ1020","date":"2015-12-04","title":"Environmental Contamination and Viral Shedding in MERS Patients During MERS-CoV Outbreak in South Korea","abstract":"Viable Middle East Respiratory Syndrome coronavirus (MERS-CoV) could be isolated from the environment surfaces and respiratory specimens from clinically recovered patients.\n Our results suggested that MERS-CoV can be transmitted through contaminated fomites, hence strict environmental hygiene, and sufficient isolation period are essential for MERS-CoV control.\n","id":"PMC7108026","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Oxford University Press","authors":[{"firstname":"Seo Yu","surname":"Bin","email":"choiki55@chungbuk.ac.kr","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jung Yeon","surname":"Heo","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Min-Suk","surname":"Song","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jacob","surname":"Lee","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Eun-Ha","surname":"Kim","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Su-Jin","surname":"Park","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hyeok-il","surname":"Kwon","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Se mi","surname":"Kim","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Young-il","surname":"Kim","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Young-Jae","surname":"Si","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"In-Won","surname":"Lee","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yun Hee","surname":"Baek","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Won-Suk","surname":"Choi","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jinsoo","surname":"Min","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hye Won","surname":"Jeong","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Young Ki","surname":"Choi","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1093/cid/ciw239","date":"2016-04-07","title":"Extensive Viable Middle East Respiratory Syndrome (MERS) Coronavirus Contamination in Air and Surrounding Environment in MERS Isolation Wards","abstract":"Middle East respiratory syndrome (MERS) coronavirus was found by reverse-transcription polymerase-chain-reaction from viral cultures of 4 of 7 air samples and 15 of 68 surface swabs from 3 MERS patients' rooms, calling for epidemiologic investigation for contact and airborne transmission.\n","id":"PMC7108054","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Infectious Diseases Society of America","authors":[{"firstname":"Sung-Han","surname":"Kim","email":"jiyoung.min@ip-korea.org","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"So Young","surname":"Chang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Minki","surname":"Sung","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ji Hoon","surname":"Park","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hong","surname":"Bin Kim","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Heeyoung","surname":"Lee","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jae-Phil","surname":"Choi","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Won Suk","surname":"Choi","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ji-Young","surname":"Min","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":" COVID-19 community mobility reports. Accessed April 16, 2020. https://www.google.com/covid19/mobility/","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]}]},{"doi":"10.12688/wellcomeopenres.15896.1","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Transmission dynamics, serial interval and epidemiology of COVID-19 diseases in Hong Kong under different control measures","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/S2468-2667(20)30090-6","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Impact assessment of non-pharmaceutical interventions against coronavirus disease 2019 and influenza in Hong Kong: an observational study","abstract":"Background\nA range of public health measures have been implemented to suppress local transmission of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) in Hong Kong.\n\n We examined the effect of these interventions and behavioural changes of the public on the incidence of COVID-19, as well as on influenza virus infections, which might share some aspects of transmission dynamics with COVID-19.\nMethods\nWe analysed data on laboratory-confirmed COVID-19 cases, influenza surveillance data in outpatients of all ages, and influenza hospitalisations in children.\n\n We estimated the daily effective reproduction number (Rt) for COVID-19 and influenza A H1N1 to estimate changes in transmissibility over time.\n\n Attitudes towards COVID-19 and changes in population behaviours were reviewed through three telephone surveys done on Jan 2023, Feb 1114, and March 1013, 2020.\nFindings\nCOVID-19 transmissibility measured by Rt has remained at approximately 1 for 8 weeks in Hong Kong.\n\n Influenza transmission declined substantially after the implementation of social distancing measures and changes in population behaviours in late January, with a 44% (95% CI 3453%) reduction in transmissibility in the community, from an estimated Rt of 128 (95% CI 126130) before the start of the school closures to 072 (070074) during the closure weeks.\n\n Similarly, a 33% (2443%) reduction in transmissibility was seen based on paediatric hospitalisation rates, from an Rt of 110 (106112) before the start of the school closures to 073 (068077) after school closures.\n\n Among respondents to the surveys, 745%, 975%, and 988% reported wearing masks when going out, and 613%, 902%, and 851% reported avoiding crowded places in surveys 1 (n=1008), 2 (n=1000), and 3 (n=1005), respectively.\n\n\nInterpretation\nOur study shows that non-pharmaceutical interventions (including border restrictions, quarantine and isolation, distancing, and changes in population behaviour) were associated with reduced transmission of COVID-19 in Hong Kong, and are also likely to have substantially reduced influenza transmission in early February, 2020.\nFunding\nHealth and Medical Research Fund, Hong Kong.\n\n\n","id":"PMC7164922","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd.","authors":[{"firstname":"Benjamin J","surname":"Cowling","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Sheikh Taslim","surname":"Ali","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Tiffany W Y","surname":"Ng","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Tim K","surname":"Tsang","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Julian C M","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Min Whui","surname":"Fong","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Qiuyan","surname":"Liao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Mike YW","surname":"Kwan","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"So Lun","surname":"Lee","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Susan S","surname":"Chiu","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Joseph T","surname":"Wu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Peng","surname":"Wu","email":"pengwu@hku.hk","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Gabriel M","surname":"Leung","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}],"References depth 2":[{"doi":"10.1016/S0140-6736(20)30746-7","date":"1970-01-01","title":"First-wave COVID-19 transmissibility and severity in China outside Hubei after control measures, and second-wave scenario planning: a modelling impact assessment","abstract":"Background\nAs of March 18, 2020, 13?415 confirmed cases and 120 deaths related to coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) in mainland China, outside Hubei provincethe epicentre of the outbreakhad been reported.\n\n Since late January, massive public health interventions have been implemented nationwide to contain the outbreak.\n\n We provide an impact assessment of the transmissibility and severity of COVID-19 during the first wave in mainland Chinese locations outside Hubei.\n\n\nMethods\nWe estimated the instantaneous reproduction number (Rt) of COVID-19 in Beijing, Shanghai, Shenzhen, Wenzhou, and the ten Chinese provinces that had the highest number of confirmed COVID-19 cases; and the confirmed case-fatality risk (cCFR) in Beijing, Shanghai, Shenzhen, and Wenzhou, and all 31 Chinese provinces.\n\n We used a susceptibleinfectiousrecovered model to show the potential effects of relaxing containment measures after the first wave of infection, in anticipation of a possible second wave.\n\n\nFindings\nIn all selected cities and provinces, the Rt decreased substantially since Jan 23, when control measures were implemented, and have since remained below 1. The cCFR outside Hubei was 098% (95% CI 082116), which was almost five times lower than that in Hubei (591%, 573609).\n\n Relaxing the interventions (resulting in Rt &gt;1) when the epidemic size was still small would increase the cumulative case count exponentially as a function of relaxation duration, even if aggressive interventions could subsequently push disease prevalence back to the baseline level.\n\n\nInterpretation\nThe first wave of COVID-19 outside of Hubei has abated because of aggressive non-pharmaceutical interventions.\n\n However, given the substantial risk of viral reintroduction, particularly from overseas importation, close monitoring of Rt and cCFR is needed to inform strategies against a potential second wave to achieve an optimal balance between health and economic protection.\n\n\nFunding\nHealth and Medical Research Fund, Hong Kong, China.\n\n\n","id":"PMC7195331","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Elsevier Ltd.","authors":[{"firstname":"Kathy","surname":"Leung","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Joseph T","surname":"Wu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Di","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Gabriel M","surname":"Leung","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"To tame coronavirus, Mao-style social control blankets China","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Authoritarianism, outbreaks, and information politics","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Early season estimate of influenza vaccination effectiveness against influenza hospitalisation in children, Hong Kong, winter influenza season 2018/19","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"A tale of two cities: community psychobehavioral surveillance and related impact on outbreak control in Hong Kong and Singapore during the severe acute respiratory syndrome epidemic","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Longitudinal assessment of community psychobehavioral responses during and after the 2003 outbreak of severe acute respiratory syndrome in Hong Kong","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Community psychological and behavioral responses through the first wave of the 2009 influenza A(H1N1) pandemic in Hong Kong","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Responses to threat of influenza A(H7N9) and support for live poultry markets, Hong Kong, 2013","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"EpiEstim: estimate time varying reproduction numbers from epidemic curves","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Improved inference of time-varying reproduction numbers during infectious disease outbreaks","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Early transmission dynamics in Wuhan, China, of novel coronavirus-infected pneumonia","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Improving the estimation of influenza-related mortality over a seasonal baseline","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Infection fatality risk of the pandemic A(H1N1)2009 virus in Hong Kong","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Ambient ozone and influenza transmissibility in Hong Kong","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"A new framework and software to estimate time-varying reproduction numbers during epidemics","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"How generation intervals shape the relationship between growth rates and reproductive numbers","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Some problems in interval estimation","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Inferring influenza infection attack rate from seroprevalence data","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Mitigation of influenza B epidemic with school closures, Hong Kong, 2018","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Effectiveness of control measures during the SARS epidemic in Beijing: a comparison of the Rt curve and the epidemic curve","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Epidemiological research priorities for public health control of the ongoing global novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV) outbreak","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Defining the epidemiology of COVID-19:studies needed","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"SARS-CoV-2 viral load in upper respiratory specimens of infected patients","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Coronavirus: Why some countries wear face masks and others don't","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"10.1001/jama.2020.6130","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Association of Public Health Interventions With the Epidemiology of the COVID-19 Outbreak in Wuhan, China","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/S2589-7500(20)30026-1","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Early epidemiological analysis of the coronavirus disease 2019 outbreak based on crowdsourced data: a population-level observational study","abstract":"Background\nAs the outbreak of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) progresses, epidemiological data are needed to guide situational awareness and intervention strategies.\n\n Here we describe efforts to compile and disseminate epidemiological information on COVID-19 from news media and social networks.\n\n\nMethods\nIn this population-level observational study, we searched DXY.\n\ncn, a health-care-oriented social network that is currently streaming news reports on COVID-19 from local and national Chinese health agencies.\n\n We compiled a list of individual patients with COVID-19 and daily province-level case counts between Jan 13 and Jan 31, 2020, in China.\n\n We also compiled a list of internationally exported cases of COVID-19 from global news media sources (Kyodo News, The Straits Times, and CNN), national governments, and health authorities.\n\n We assessed trends in the epidemiology of COVID-19 and studied the outbreak progression across China, assessing delays between symptom onset, seeking care at a hospital or clinic, and reporting, before and after Jan 18, 2020, as awareness of the outbreak increased.\n\n All data were made publicly available in real time.\n\n\nFindings\nWe collected data for 507 patients with COVID-19 reported between Jan 13 and Jan 31, 2020, including 364 from mainland China and 143 from outside of China.\n\n 281 (55%) patients were male and the median age was 46 years (IQR 3560).\n\n Few patients (13 [3%]) were younger than 15 years and the age profile of Chinese patients adjusted for baseline demographics confirmed a deficit of infections among children.\n\n Across the analysed period, delays between symptom onset and seeking care at a hospital or clinic were longer in Hubei province than in other provinces in mainland China and internationally.\n\n In mainland China, these delays decreased from 5 days before Jan 18, 2020, to 2 days thereafter until Jan 31, 2020 (p=00009).\n\n Although our sample captures only 507 (52%) of 9826 patients with COVID-19 reported by official sources during the analysed period, our data align with an official report published by Chinese authorities on Jan 28, 2020.\nInterpretation\nNews reports and social media can help reconstruct the progression of an outbreak and provide detailed patient-level data in the context of a health emergency.\n\n The availability of a central physician-oriented social network facilitated the compilation of publicly available COVID-19 data in China.\n\n As the outbreak progresses, social media and news reports will probably capture a diminishing fraction of COVID-19 cases globally due to reporting fatigue and overwhelmed health-care systems.\n\n In the early stages of an outbreak, availability of public datasets is important to encourage analytical efforts by independent teams and provide robust evidence to guide interventions.\n\n\nFunding\nFogarty International Center, US National Institutes of Health.\n\n\n","id":"PMC7158945","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd.","authors":[{"firstname":"Kaiyuan","surname":"Sun","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jenny","surname":"Chen","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ccile","surname":"Viboud","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}],"References depth 2":[{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Using &quot;outbreak science&quot; to strengthen the use of models during epidemics","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Severe respiratory disease concurrent with the circulation of H1N1 influenza","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Characterizing the epidemiology of the 2009 influenza A/H1N1 pandemic in Mexico","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Pandemic potential of a strain of influenza A (H1N1): early findings","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Transmission dynamics and control of severe acute respiratory syndrome","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Characterizing Ebola transmission patterns based on internet news reports","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Pneumonia","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Comparative age distribution of influenza morbidity and mortality during seasonal influenza epidemics and the 2009 H1N1 pandemic","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Incubation period of 2019 novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV) infections among travellers from Wuhan, China, 20-28 January 2020","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1101/2020.02.02.20020016","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The incubation period of 2019-nCoV from publicly reported confirmed cases: estimation and application","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1101/2020.01.23.916395v1","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Preliminary estimation of the basic reproduction number of novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV) in China, from 2019 to 2020: a data-driven analysis in the early phase of the outbreak","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1056/NEJMoa2001316","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Early Transmission Dynamics in Wuhan, China, of Novel CoronavirusInfected Pneumonia","abstract":"Background\nThe initial cases of novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV)infected pneumonia (NCIP) occurred in Wuhan, Hubei Province, China, in December 2019 and January 2020. We analyzed data on the first 425 confirmed cases in Wuhan to determine the epidemiologic characteristics of NCIP.\n\n\nMethods\nWe collected information on demographic characteristics, exposure history, and illness timelines of laboratory-confirmed cases of NCIP that had been reported by January 22, 2020. We described characteristics of the cases and estimated the key epidemiologic time-delay distributions.\n\n In the early period of exponential growth, we estimated the epidemic doubling time and the basic reproductive number.\n\n\nResults\nAmong the first 425 patients with confirmed NCIP, the median age was 59 years and 56% were male.\n\n The majority of cases (55%) with onset before January 1, 2020, were linked to the Huanan Seafood Wholesale Market, as compared with 8.6% of the subsequent cases.\n\n The mean incubation period was 5.2 days (95% confidence interval [CI], 4.1 to 7.0), with the 95th percentile of the distribution at 12.5 days.\n\n In its early stages, the epidemic doubled in size every 7.4 days.\n\n With a mean serial interval of 7.5 days (95% CI, 5.3 to 19), the basic reproductive number was estimated to be 2.2 (95% CI, 1.4 to 3.9).\n\n\nConclusions\nOn the basis of this information, there is evidence that human-to-human transmission has occurred among close contacts since the middle of December 2019. Considerable efforts to reduce transmission will be required to control outbreaks if similar dynamics apply elsewhere.\n\n Measures to prevent or reduce transmission should be implemented in populations at risk.\n\n (Funded by the Ministry of Science and Technology of China and others.\n\n)\n","id":"PMC7121484","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Massachusetts Medical Society","authors":[{"firstname":"Qun","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xuhua","surname":"Guan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Peng","surname":"Wu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xiaoye","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Lei","surname":"Zhou","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yeqing","surname":"Tong","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ruiqi","surname":"Ren","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Kathy S.M.","surname":"Leung","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Eric H.Y.","surname":"Lau","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jessica Y.","surname":"Wong","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xuesen","surname":"Xing","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Nijuan","surname":"Xiang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yang","surname":"Wu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Chao","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Qi","surname":"Chen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Dan","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Tian","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jing","surname":"Zhao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Man","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Wenxiao","surname":"Tu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Chuding","surname":"Chen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Lianmei","surname":"Jin","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Rui","surname":"Yang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Qi","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Suhua","surname":"Zhou","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Rui","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hui","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yinbo","surname":"Luo","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yuan","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ge","surname":"Shao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Huan","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zhongfa","surname":"Tao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yang","surname":"Yang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zhiqiang","surname":"Deng","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Boxi","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zhitao","surname":"Ma","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yanping","surname":"Zhang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Guoqing","surname":"Shi","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Tommy T.Y.","surname":"Lam","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Joseph T.","surname":"Wu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"George F.","surname":"Gao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Benjamin J.","surname":"Cowling","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Bo","surname":"Yang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Bo","surname":"Yang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Gabriel M.","surname":"Leung","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zijian","surname":"Feng","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1016/S0140-6736(20)30183-5","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Clinical features of patients infected with 2019 novel coronavirus in Wuhan, China","abstract":"Background\nA recent cluster of pneumonia cases in Wuhan, China, was caused by a novel betacoronavirus, the 2019 novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV).\n\n We report the epidemiological, clinical, laboratory, and radiological characteristics and treatment and clinical outcomes of these patients.\n\n\nMethods\nAll patients with suspected 2019-nCoV were admitted to a designated hospital in Wuhan.\n\n We prospectively collected and analysed data on patients with laboratory-confirmed 2019-nCoV infection by real-time RT-PCR and next-generation sequencing.\n\n Data were obtained with standardised data collection forms shared by WHO and the International Severe Acute Respiratory and Emerging Infection Consortium from electronic medical records.\n\n Researchers also directly communicated with patients or their families to ascertain epidemiological and symptom data.\n\n Outcomes were also compared between patients who had been admitted to the intensive care unit (ICU) and those who had not.\n\n\nFindings\nBy Jan 2, 2020, 41 admitted hospital patients had been identified as having laboratory-confirmed 2019-nCoV infection.\n\n Most of the infected patients were men (30 [73%] of 41); less than half had underlying diseases (13 [32%]), including diabetes (eight [20%]), hypertension (six [15%]), and cardiovascular disease (six [15%]).\n\n Median age was 490 years (IQR 410580).\n\n 27 (66%) of 41 patients had been exposed to Huanan seafood market.\n\n One family cluster was found.\n\n Common symptoms at onset of illness were fever (40 [98%] of 41 patients), cough (31 [76%]), and myalgia or fatigue (18 [44%]); less common symptoms were sputum production (11 [28%] of 39), headache (three [8%] of 38), haemoptysis (two [5%] of 39), and diarrhoea (one [3%] of 38).\n\n Dyspnoea developed in 22 (55%) of 40 patients (median time from illness onset to dyspnoea 80 days [IQR 50130]).\n\n 26 (63%) of 41 patients had lymphopenia.\n\n All 41 patients had pneumonia with abnormal findings on chest CT.\n\n Complications included acute respiratory distress syndrome (12 [29%]), RNAaemia (six [15%]), acute cardiac injury (five [12%]) and secondary infection (four [10%]).\n\n 13 (32%) patients were admitted to an ICU and six (15%) died.\n\n Compared with non-ICU patients, ICU patients had higher plasma levels of IL2, IL7, IL10, GSCF, IP10, MCP1, MIP1A, and TNF?.\n\n\nInterpretation\nThe 2019-nCoV infection caused clusters of severe respiratory illness similar to severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus and was associated with ICU admission and high mortality.\n\n Major gaps in our knowledge of the origin, epidemiology, duration of human transmission, and clinical spectrum of disease need fulfilment by future studies.\n\n\nFunding\nMinistry of Science and Technology, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences, National Natural Science Foundation of China, and Beijing Municipal Science and Technology Commission.\n\n\n","id":"PMC7159299","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Elsevier Ltd.","authors":[{"firstname":"Chaolin","surname":"Huang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yeming","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xingwang","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Lili","surname":"Ren","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jianping","surname":"Zhao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yi","surname":"Hu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Li","surname":"Zhang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Guohui","surname":"Fan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jiuyang","surname":"Xu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xiaoying","surname":"Gu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zhenshun","surname":"Cheng","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ting","surname":"Yu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jiaan","surname":"Xia","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yuan","surname":"Wei","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Wenjuan","surname":"Wu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xuelei","surname":"Xie","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Wen","surname":"Yin","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hui","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Min","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yan","surname":"Xiao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hong","surname":"Gao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Li","surname":"Guo","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jungang","surname":"Xie","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Guangfa","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Rongmeng","surname":"Jiang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zhancheng","surname":"Gao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Qi","surname":"Jin","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jianwei","surname":"Wang","email":"wangjw28@163.com","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Bin","surname":"Cao","email":"caobin_ben@163.com","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Hospitalizations for severe lower respiratory tract infections","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/S0140-6736(20)30154-9","date":"1970-01-01","title":"A familial cluster of pneumonia associated with the 2019 novel coronavirus indicating person-to-person transmission: a study of a family cluster","abstract":"Background\nAn ongoing outbreak of pneumonia associated with a novel coronavirus was reported in Wuhan city, Hubei province, China.\n\n Affected patients were geographically linked with a local wet market as a potential source.\n\n No data on person-to-person or nosocomial transmission have been published to date.\n\n\nMethods\nIn this study, we report the epidemiological, clinical, laboratory, radiological, and microbiological findings of five patients in a family cluster who presented with unexplained pneumonia after returning to Shenzhen, Guangdong province, China, after a visit to Wuhan, and an additional family member who did not travel to Wuhan.\n\n Phylogenetic analysis of genetic sequences from these patients were done.\n\n\nFindings\nFrom Jan 10, 2020, we enrolled a family of six patients who travelled to Wuhan from Shenzhen between Dec 29, 2019 and Jan 4, 2020. Of six family members who travelled to Wuhan, five were identified as infected with the novel coronavirus.\n\n Additionally, one family member, who did not travel to Wuhan, became infected with the virus after several days of contact with four of the family members.\n\n None of the family members had contacts with Wuhan markets or animals, although two had visited a Wuhan hospital.\n\n Five family members (aged 3666 years) presented with fever, upper or lower respiratory tract symptoms, or diarrhoea, or a combination of these 36 days after exposure.\n\n They presented to our hospital (The University of Hong Kong-Shenzhen Hospital, Shenzhen) 610 days after symptom onset.\n\n They and one asymptomatic child (aged 10 years) had radiological ground-glass lung opacities.\n\n Older patients (aged &gt;60 years) had more systemic symptoms, extensive radiological ground-glass lung changes, lymphopenia, thrombocytopenia, and increased C-reactive protein and lactate dehydrogenase levels.\n\n The nasopharyngeal or throat swabs of these six patients were negative for known respiratory microbes by point-of-care multiplex RT-PCR, but five patients (four adults and the child) were RT-PCR positive for genes encoding the internal RNA-dependent RNA polymerase and surface Spike protein of this novel coronavirus, which were confirmed by Sanger sequencing.\n\n Phylogenetic analysis of these five patients' RT-PCR amplicons and two full genomes by next-generation sequencing showed that this is a novel coronavirus, which is closest to the bat severe acute respiatory syndrome (SARS)-related coronaviruses found in Chinese horseshoe bats.\n\n\nInterpretation\nOur findings are consistent with person-to-person transmission of this novel coronavirus in hospital and family settings, and the reports of infected travellers in other geographical regions.\n\n\nFunding\nThe Shaw Foundation Hong Kong, Michael Seak-Kan Tong, Respiratory Viral Research Foundation Limited, Hui Ming, Hui Hoy and Chow Sin Lan Charity Fund Limited, Marina Man-Wai Lee, the Hong Kong Hainan Commercial Association South China Microbiology Research Fund, Sanming Project of Medicine (Shenzhen), and High Level-Hospital Program (Guangdong Health Commission).\n\n\n","id":"PMC7159286","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Elsevier Ltd.","authors":[{"firstname":"Jasper Fuk-Woo","surname":"Chan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Shuofeng","surname":"Yuan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Kin-Hang","surname":"Kok","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Kelvin Kai-Wang","surname":"To","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hin","surname":"Chu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jin","surname":"Yang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Fanfan","surname":"Xing","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jieling","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Cyril Chik-Yan","surname":"Yip","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Rosana Wing-Shan","surname":"Poon","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hoi-Wah","surname":"Tsoi","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Simon Kam-Fai","surname":"Lo","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Kwok-Hung","surname":"Chan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Vincent Kwok-Man","surname":"Poon","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Wan-Mui","surname":"Chan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jonathan Daniel","surname":"Ip","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jian-Piao","surname":"Cai","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Vincent Chi-Chung","surname":"Cheng","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Honglin","surname":"Chen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Christopher Kim-Ming","surname":"Hui","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Kwok-Yung","surname":"Yuen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The epidemiology of severe acute respiratory syndrome in the 2003 Hong Kong epidemic: an analysis of all 1755 patients","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Global mortality estimates for the 2009 Influenza Pandemic from the GLaMOR project: a modeling study","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1101/2020.01.28.20019299","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Risk for Transportation of 2019 Novel Coronavirus (COVID-19) from Wuhan to Cities in China","abstract":"id='P2'>On January 23, 2020, China quarantined Wuhan to contain an emerging coronavirus (COVID-19).\n We estimated the probability of transportation of COVID-19 from Wuhan to 369 cities in China before the quarantine.\n The expected risk is &gt;50% in 130 (95% CI 89190) cities and &gt;99% in the 4 largest metropolitan areas of China.\n","id":"PMC7239085","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory","authors":[{"firstname":"Zhanwei","surname":"Du","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Lin","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Simon","surname":"Cauchemez","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xiaoke","surname":"Xu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xianwen","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Benjamin J.","surname":"Cowling","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Lauren Ancel","surname":"Meyers","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Exposure patterns driving ebola transmission in west Africa: A retrospective observational study","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Coming Together to Improve Data Collection in Uncertain Times","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/s2589-7500(20)30055-8","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Crowdsourcing data to mitigate epidemics","abstract":"","id":"PMC7158995","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd.","authors":[{"firstname":"Gabriel M","surname":"Leung","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Kathy","surname":"Leung","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}],"References depth 2":[{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Clock and TMRCA based on 27 genomes","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/S0140-6736(20)30260-9","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Nowcasting and forecasting the potential domestic and international spread of the 2019-nCoV outbreak originating in Wuhan, China: a modelling study","abstract":"Background\nSince Dec 31, 2019, the Chinese city of Wuhan has reported an outbreak of atypical pneumonia caused by the 2019 novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV).\n\n Cases have been exported to other Chinese cities, as well as internationally, threatening to trigger a global outbreak.\n\n Here, we provide an estimate of the size of the epidemic in Wuhan on the basis of the number of cases exported from Wuhan to cities outside mainland China and forecast the extent of the domestic and global public health risks of epidemics, accounting for social and non-pharmaceutical prevention interventions.\n\n\nMethods\nWe used data from Dec 31, 2019, to Jan 28, 2020, on the number of cases exported from Wuhan internationally (known days of symptom onset from Dec 25, 2019, to Jan 19, 2020) to infer the number of infections in Wuhan from Dec 1, 2019, to Jan 25, 2020. Cases exported domestically were then estimated.\n\n We forecasted the national and global spread of 2019-nCoV, accounting for the effect of the metropolitan-wide quarantine of Wuhan and surrounding cities, which began Jan 2324, 2020. We used data on monthly flight bookings from the Official Aviation Guide and data on human mobility across more than 300 prefecture-level cities in mainland China from the Tencent database.\n\n Data on confirmed cases were obtained from the reports published by the Chinese Center for Disease Control and Prevention.\n\n Serial interval estimates were based on previous studies of severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus (SARS-CoV).\n\n A susceptible-exposed-infectious-recovered metapopulation model was used to simulate the epidemics across all major cities in China.\n\n The basic reproductive number was estimated using Markov Chain Monte Carlo methods and presented using the resulting posterior mean and 95% credibile interval (CrI).\n\n\nFindings\nIn our baseline scenario, we estimated that the basic reproductive number for 2019-nCoV was 268 (95% CrI 247286) and that 75?815 individuals (95% CrI 37?304130?330) have been infected in Wuhan as of Jan 25, 2020. The epidemic doubling time was 64 days (95% CrI 5871).\n\n We estimated that in the baseline scenario, Chongqing, Beijing, Shanghai, Guangzhou, and Shenzhen had imported 461 (95% CrI 227805), 113 (57193), 98 (49168), 111 (56191), and 80 (40139) infections from Wuhan, respectively.\n\n If the transmissibility of 2019-nCoV were similar everywhere domestically and over time, we inferred that epidemics are already growing exponentially in multiple major cities of China with a lag time behind the Wuhan outbreak of about 12 weeks.\n\n\nInterpretation\nGiven that 2019-nCoV is no longer contained within Wuhan, other major Chinese cities are probably sustaining localised outbreaks.\n\n Large cities overseas with close transport links to China could also become outbreak epicentres, unless substantial public health interventions at both the population and personal levels are implemented immediately.\n\n Independent self-sustaining outbreaks in major cities globally could become inevitable because of substantial exportation of presymptomatic cases and in the absence of large-scale public health interventions.\n\n Preparedness plans and mitigation interventions should be readied for quick deployment globally.\n\n\nFunding\nHealth and Medical Research Fund (Hong Kong, China).\n\n\n","id":"PMC7159271","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Elsevier Ltd.","authors":[{"firstname":"Joseph T","surname":"Wu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Kathy","surname":"Leung","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Gabriel M","surname":"Leung","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1016/S0140-6736(20)30373-1","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Do not violate the International Health Regulations during the COVID-19 outbreak","abstract":"","id":"PMC7133591","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Elsevier Ltd.","authors":[{"firstname":"Roojin","surname":"Habibi","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Gian Luca","surname":"Burci","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Thana C","surname":"de Campos","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Danwood","surname":"Chirwa","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Margherita","surname":"Cin","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Stphanie","surname":"Dagron","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Mark","surname":"Eccleston-Turner","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Lisa","surname":"Forman","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Lawrence O","surname":"Gostin","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Benjamin Mason","surname":"Meier","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Stefania","surname":"Negri","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Gorik","surname":"Ooms","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Sharifah","surname":"Sekalala","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Allyn","surname":"Taylor","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Alicia Ely","surname":"Yamin","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Steven J","surname":"Hoffman","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The Economist","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/S2589-7500(20)30026-1","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Early epidemiological analysis of the coronavirus disease 2019 outbreak based on crowdsourced data: a population-level observational study","abstract":"Background\nAs the outbreak of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) progresses, epidemiological data are needed to guide situational awareness and intervention strategies.\n\n Here we describe efforts to compile and disseminate epidemiological information on COVID-19 from news media and social networks.\n\n\nMethods\nIn this population-level observational study, we searched DXY.\n\ncn, a health-care-oriented social network that is currently streaming news reports on COVID-19 from local and national Chinese health agencies.\n\n We compiled a list of individual patients with COVID-19 and daily province-level case counts between Jan 13 and Jan 31, 2020, in China.\n\n We also compiled a list of internationally exported cases of COVID-19 from global news media sources (Kyodo News, The Straits Times, and CNN), national governments, and health authorities.\n\n We assessed trends in the epidemiology of COVID-19 and studied the outbreak progression across China, assessing delays between symptom onset, seeking care at a hospital or clinic, and reporting, before and after Jan 18, 2020, as awareness of the outbreak increased.\n\n All data were made publicly available in real time.\n\n\nFindings\nWe collected data for 507 patients with COVID-19 reported between Jan 13 and Jan 31, 2020, including 364 from mainland China and 143 from outside of China.\n\n 281 (55%) patients were male and the median age was 46 years (IQR 3560).\n\n Few patients (13 [3%]) were younger than 15 years and the age profile of Chinese patients adjusted for baseline demographics confirmed a deficit of infections among children.\n\n Across the analysed period, delays between symptom onset and seeking care at a hospital or clinic were longer in Hubei province than in other provinces in mainland China and internationally.\n\n In mainland China, these delays decreased from 5 days before Jan 18, 2020, to 2 days thereafter until Jan 31, 2020 (p=00009).\n\n Although our sample captures only 507 (52%) of 9826 patients with COVID-19 reported by official sources during the analysed period, our data align with an official report published by Chinese authorities on Jan 28, 2020.\nInterpretation\nNews reports and social media can help reconstruct the progression of an outbreak and provide detailed patient-level data in the context of a health emergency.\n\n The availability of a central physician-oriented social network facilitated the compilation of publicly available COVID-19 data in China.\n\n As the outbreak progresses, social media and news reports will probably capture a diminishing fraction of COVID-19 cases globally due to reporting fatigue and overwhelmed health-care systems.\n\n In the early stages of an outbreak, availability of public datasets is important to encourage analytical efforts by independent teams and provide robust evidence to guide interventions.\n\n\nFunding\nFogarty International Center, US National Institutes of Health.\n\n\n","id":"PMC7158945","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd.","authors":[{"firstname":"Kaiyuan","surname":"Sun","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jenny","surname":"Chen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ccile","surname":"Viboud","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1056/NEJMoa2001316","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Early Transmission Dynamics in Wuhan, China, of Novel CoronavirusInfected Pneumonia","abstract":"Background\nThe initial cases of novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV)infected pneumonia (NCIP) occurred in Wuhan, Hubei Province, China, in December 2019 and January 2020. We analyzed data on the first 425 confirmed cases in Wuhan to determine the epidemiologic characteristics of NCIP.\n\n\nMethods\nWe collected information on demographic characteristics, exposure history, and illness timelines of laboratory-confirmed cases of NCIP that had been reported by January 22, 2020. We described characteristics of the cases and estimated the key epidemiologic time-delay distributions.\n\n In the early period of exponential growth, we estimated the epidemic doubling time and the basic reproductive number.\n\n\nResults\nAmong the first 425 patients with confirmed NCIP, the median age was 59 years and 56% were male.\n\n The majority of cases (55%) with onset before January 1, 2020, were linked to the Huanan Seafood Wholesale Market, as compared with 8.6% of the subsequent cases.\n\n The mean incubation period was 5.2 days (95% confidence interval [CI], 4.1 to 7.0), with the 95th percentile of the distribution at 12.5 days.\n\n In its early stages, the epidemic doubled in size every 7.4 days.\n\n With a mean serial interval of 7.5 days (95% CI, 5.3 to 19), the basic reproductive number was estimated to be 2.2 (95% CI, 1.4 to 3.9).\n\n\nConclusions\nOn the basis of this information, there is evidence that human-to-human transmission has occurred among close contacts since the middle of December 2019. Considerable efforts to reduce transmission will be required to control outbreaks if similar dynamics apply elsewhere.\n\n Measures to prevent or reduce transmission should be implemented in populations at risk.\n\n (Funded by the Ministry of Science and Technology of China and others.\n\n)\n","id":"PMC7121484","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Massachusetts Medical Society","authors":[{"firstname":"Qun","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xuhua","surname":"Guan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Peng","surname":"Wu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xiaoye","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Lei","surname":"Zhou","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yeqing","surname":"Tong","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ruiqi","surname":"Ren","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Kathy S.M.","surname":"Leung","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Eric H.Y.","surname":"Lau","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jessica Y.","surname":"Wong","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xuesen","surname":"Xing","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Nijuan","surname":"Xiang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yang","surname":"Wu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Chao","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Qi","surname":"Chen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Dan","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Tian","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jing","surname":"Zhao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Man","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Wenxiao","surname":"Tu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Chuding","surname":"Chen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Lianmei","surname":"Jin","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Rui","surname":"Yang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Qi","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Suhua","surname":"Zhou","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Rui","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hui","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yinbo","surname":"Luo","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yuan","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ge","surname":"Shao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Huan","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zhongfa","surname":"Tao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yang","surname":"Yang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zhiqiang","surname":"Deng","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Boxi","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zhitao","surname":"Ma","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yanping","surname":"Zhang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Guoqing","surname":"Shi","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Tommy T.Y.","surname":"Lam","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Joseph T.","surname":"Wu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"George F.","surname":"Gao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Benjamin J.","surname":"Cowling","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Bo","surname":"Yang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Bo","surname":"Yang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Gabriel M.","surname":"Leung","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zijian","surname":"Feng","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Comparing national infectious disease surveillance systems: China and the Netherlands","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]}]}]},{"doi":"10.1371/journal.pmed.1003244","date":"2020-07-02","title":"Social distancing to slow the US COVID-19 epidemic: Longitudinal pretestposttest comparison group study","abstract":"Background\nSocial distancing measures to address the US coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) epidemic may have notable health and social impacts.\n\n\nMethods and findings\nWe conducted a longitudinal pretestposttest comparison group study to estimate the change in COVID-19 case growth before versus after implementation of statewide social distancing measures in the US.\n\n The primary exposure was time before (14 days prior to, and through 3 days after) versus after (beginning 4 days after, to up to 21 days after) implementation of the first statewide social distancing measures.\n\n Statewide restrictions on internal movement were examined as a secondary exposure.\n\n The primary outcome was the COVID-19 case growth rate.\n\n The secondary outcome was the COVID-19-attributed mortality growth rate.\n\n All states initiated social distancing measures between March 10 and March 25, 2020. The mean daily COVID-19 case growth rate decreased beginning 4 days after implementation of the first statewide social distancing measures, by 0.9% per day (95% CI ?1.4% to ?0.4%; P &lt; 0.001).\n\n We did not observe a statistically significant difference in the mean daily case growth rate before versus after implementation of statewide restrictions on internal movement (0.1% per day; 95% CI ?0.04% to 0.3%; P = 0.14), but there is substantial difficulty in disentangling the unique associations with statewide restrictions on internal movement from the unique associations with the first social distancing measures.\n\n Beginning 7 days after social distancing, the COVID-19-attributed mortality growth rate decreased by 2.0% per day (95% CI ?3.0% to ?0.9%; P &lt; 0.001).\n\n Our analysis is susceptible to potential bias resulting from the aggregate nature of the ecological data, potential confounding by contemporaneous changes (e.\n\ng.\n\n, increases in testing), and potential underestimation of social distancing due to spillover effects from neighboring states.\n\n\nConclusions\nStatewide social distancing measures were associated with a decrease in the COVID-19 case growth rate that was statistically significant.\n\n Statewide social distancing measures were also associated with a decrease in the COVID-19-attributed mortality growth rate beginning 7 days after implementation, although this decrease was no longer statistically significant by 10 days.\n\n\n","id":"PMC7418951","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"Public Library of Science","authors":[{"firstname":"Mark J.","surname":"Siedner","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":" Guy","surname":"Harling","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":" Guy","surname":"Harling","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":" Zahra","surname":"Reynolds","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":" Zahra","surname":"Reynolds","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":" Rebecca F.","surname":"Gilbert","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":" Sebastien","surname":"Haneuse","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":" Sebastien","surname":"Haneuse","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":" Atheendar S.","surname":"Venkataramani","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":" Atheendar S.","surname":"Venkataramani","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":" Alexander C.","surname":"Tsai","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":" Alexander C.","surname":"Tsai","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":" Donald A.","surname":"Redelmeier","email":"NULL","contributions":"3"},{"firstname":" Donald A.","surname":"Redelmeier","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":" Donald A.","surname":"Redelmeier","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":" NULL","surname":"NULL","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":" NULL","surname":"NULL","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":" NULL","surname":"NULL","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}],"Full Text":"Social distancing to slow the US COVID-19 epidemic: Longitudinal pretest-posttest comparison group study\nBackground\nSocial distancing measures to address the US coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) epidemic may have notable health and social impacts.\nMethods and findings\nWe conducted a longitudinal pretest-posttest comparison group study to estimate the change in COVID-19 case growth before versus after implementation of statewide social distancing measures in the US. The primary exposure was time before (14 days prior to, and through 3 days after) versus after (beginning 4 days after, to up to 21 days after) implementation of the first statewide social distancing measures. Statewide restrictions on internal movement were examined as a secondary exposure. The primary outcome was the COVID-19 case growth rate. The secondary outcome was the COVID-19-attributed mortality growth rate. All states initiated social distancing measures between March 10 and March 25, 2020. The mean daily COVID-19 case growth rate decreased beginning 4 days after implementation of the first statewide social distancing measures, by 0.9% per day (95% CI -1.4% to -0.4%; P &lt; 0.001). We did not observe a statistically significant difference in the mean daily case growth rate before versus after implementation of statewide restrictions on internal movement (0.1% per day; 95% CI -0.04% to 0.3%; P = 0.14), but there is substantial difficulty in disentangling the unique associations with statewide restrictions on internal movement from the unique associations with the first social distancing measures. Beginning 7 days after social distancing, the COVID-19-attributed mortality growth rate decreased by 2.0% per day (95% CI -3.0% to -0.9%; P &lt; 0.001). Our analysis is susceptible to potential bias resulting from the aggregate nature of the ecological data, potential confounding by contemporaneous changes (e.g., increases in testing), and potential underestimation of social distancing due to spillover effects from neighboring states.\nConclusions\nStatewide social distancing measures were associated with a decrease in the COVID-19 case growth rate that was statistically significant. Statewide social distancing measures were also associated with a decrease in the COVID-19-attributed mortality growth rate beginning 7 days after implementation, although this decrease was no longer statistically significant by 10 days.\nIn this observational study, Mark Siedner and colleagues investigate correlations between U.S. state lockdowns and changes in COVID-19 case growth rates.\nAuthor summary\nWhy was this study done?\nThere are few empirical data about the population health benefits of imposing statewide social distancing measures to reduce transmission of severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2, which causes coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19).\nWhat did the researchers do and find?\nWe compared data from each state before versus after implementation of statewide social distancing measures to estimate changes in the mean daily COVID-19 case growth rate.\nThe case growth rate declined by approximately 1% per day beginning 4 days (approximately 1 incubation period) after statewide social distancing measures were implemented.\nOur model implies that social distancing reduced the total number of COVID-19 cases by approximately 1,600 reported cases at 7 days after implementation, by approximately 55,000 reported cases at 14 days after implementation, and by approximately 600,000 reported cases at 21 days after implementation.\nWhat do these findings mean?\nStatewide social distancing measures were associated with a reduction in the growth rate of COVID-19 cases in the US.\nOur analysis is susceptible to potential bias resulting from the aggregate nature of the data, potential confounding by other changes that occurred during the study period (e.g., increases in testing), and potential underestimation of social distancing due to spillover effects from neighboring states.\nIntroduction\nModeling estimates suggested that up to 80% of Americans would be infected with severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS CoV-2) if no preventive interventions were implemented. In response, US state governments implemented social distancing measures in an attempt to limit its transmission and reduce morbidity and mortality from coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19). Such measures have been implemented during prior pandemics, with moderate success, and are predicted to prevent a rapid, overwhelming epidemic in modeling studies. Data on social distancing and its associations with the course of the COVID-19 pandemic are now beginning to emerge, although no studies to our knowledge have examined changes in COVID-19-attributed mortality as an outcome. Recent studies have shown slowed COVID-19 epidemic growth coinciding with spontaneous reductions in internal movement, as well as after implementation of social distancing measures. Because of the economic and social costs associated with social distancing measures, there is immense value in using different modalities to quantify the extent to which they have benefits for epidemic control. Herein, we contribute to this body of evidence, using a longitudinal pretest-posttest comparison group study design to compare the daily growth rate of COVID-19 cases, and the daily growth rate of COVID-19-attributed deaths, before versus after implementation of social distancing measures in the US. Our primary aim was to empirically estimate the public health impact of government-mandated non-pharmacological interventions in the period after their initial implementation and prior to their recent staged relaxation.\nMethods\nData collection\nWe searched government websites and third-party sources to identify all statewide social distancing measures implemented between January 21 and May 1, 2020 (see S1 Text). We applied a broad definition of social distancing measures, using a previously published typology: closures of schools, closures of workplaces, cancellations of public events, restrictions on internal movement, and closures of state borders. Restrictions on internal movement, i.e., shelter-in-place orders (often referred to colloquially as &quot;lockdowns&quot;), are generally the most restrictive of these in terms of their impacts on daily movement. To obtain daily state-specific reported COVID-19 cases and deaths, we used the New York Times COVID-19 database (https://github.com/nytimes/covid-19-data; last accessed May 26, 2020). Reporting of cases and deaths in the New York Times database varies by state, but typically includes both laboratory-confirmed and suspected cases, as recommended by the Council of State and Territorial Epidemiologists.\nOur primary outcome was the rate of change in daily COVID-19 cases in each state, calculated as the natural log of cases on each date minus the natural log of cases on the prior date. Analysis was restricted to days on which a state had at least 30 cumulative cases reported, to minimize any effects of volatile rate changes early in the epidemic. The primary exposure of interest was time, measured as a continuous variable and divided into 2 periods: pre-implementation (14 days prior to, and through 3 days after, implementation of the first statewide social distancing measure) versus post-implementation (4 days after, to up to 21 days after implementation). We selected 4 days after implementation as the transition point based on previously published estimates of the lower end of the 95% confidence interval (CI) of the COVID-19 incubation period, which is when cases at a population level should be expected to decline in the setting of a structural intervention. For COVID-19, the latent period (between infection and the onset of infectiousness) is shorter than the incubation period (between infection and the onset of symptoms), but during the time period covered by this study:and as of the time of this writing:active asymptomatic screening programs have not been implemented in the US, so case counts would not have been expected to change until individuals became symptomatic and presented for testing. We limited our analysis to 21 days after implementation to prevent any potential diluting effects resulting from relaxation of some social distancing measures, which in some states began less than 4 weeks after implementation (e.g., Alabama, Alaska, Mississippi, and South Carolina).\nThe secondary outcome was the rate of change in daily COVID-19-attributed deaths in each state, calculated as the natural log of deaths on each date minus the natural log of deaths on the prior date. Analysis was restricted to days on which a state had at least 30 cumulative deaths reported. In the analysis of COVID-19-attributed deaths, there was less certainty about the hypothesized lag between implementation of social distancing and observed changes in the outcome. The median time from symptom onset to death varies widely in the literature. The COVID-19 Surveillance Group has estimated a median of 8 days from symptom onset to death in Italy, while estimates from China are approximately twice that amount. Incorporating an incubation period of 3-5 days, we hypothesized that a beneficial impact of social distancing measures on COVID-19-attributed mortality, if any, would be observed no sooner than 7 days and no later than 14 days after implementation. Therefore, we took a more exploratory approach to modeling the time from enactment of statewide social distancing, selecting time periods for the spline terms (described below) every 3 days during days 4-17 after implementation (i.e., 4, 7, 10, 14, and 17 days), and we allowed for observation in the post-intervention period up through 30 days.\nAs a secondary exposure, we examined statewide restrictions on internal movement. For states that did not implement statewide restrictions on internal movement during the study period, we set day 0 as 14 days after the last state implemented a restriction on internal movement (April 21, 2020) and attributed the prior 14 days to the pre-implementation period.\nStatistical analysis\nWe fitted mixed effects linear regression models, specifying the log difference in daily cases as the outcome of interest and including a random effect for state, to allow for within-state correlation of cases over time. Explanatory variables included time in days, implementation period, and a time-by-implementation-period product term. This analysis was not conducted as part of a preplanned/registered study protocol. However, we followed a clear analysis plan (see S1 Text), with minor changes made in response to a rapidly changing epidemic and in response to editorial and reviewer feedback. The initial analysis, described in the manuscript we deposited with the medRxiv preprint server on April 8, 2020, included data on statewide social distancing measures implemented between January 21 and March 30, 2020, and COVID-19 cases through March 31. Prior to submission of the current manuscript, we updated the dataset and extended the study period to include social distancing measures implemented up to April 8 and COVID-19 cases and deaths up to April 8. In response to editorial and reviewer feedback, we further updated the dataset and extended the study period to include social distancing measures implemented up to May 1 and COVID-19 cases and deaths up to May 26, expanded the analysis to include growth in COVID-19-attributed deaths as a secondary outcome, and added an event study specification and sensitivity analyses investigating a range of plausible incubation periods (see below).\nTo assess the robustness of our findings, we conducted several sensitivity analyses. First, to adjust for potential confounding by population density, we adjusted our estimates by state-level population density. Second, to account for weekly periodicity that could also coincide with implementation of social distancing measures, we also adjusted for day of the week. Third, to assess the extent to which early versus late implementation of social distancing measures modified the effects of these actions, we stratified our estimates by the size of the epidemic in the state at the time of implementation. Fourth, although implementation of social distancing measures is most likely to show population-level effectiveness in reducing coronavirus transmission beginning 3 days later, at the lower bound of its estimated incubation period, we refitted the regression models specifying a range of different incubation periods.\nFinally, to assess the extent to which our estimates may have been driven by model specification, we replaced the longitudinal pretest-posttest comparison group study design with a multivariable regression model in which the primary explanatory variables of interest were a series of binary indicators denoting each day before versus after implementation of the first statewide social distancing measures (often described in the econometrics literature as an event study specification). This approach compares daily case growth before versus after implementation of the first statewide social distancing measures in states that implemented such measures versus daily case growth in states that did not implement such measures. Our regression model included state fixed effects, to adjust for potential confounding from time-invariant state-level factors or baseline differences in population socioeconomic or health characteristics, and linear and quadratic terms for time (days) to adjust for nationwide secular trends in the outcomes. We computed 95% CIs adjusted for clustering within states, the geographical level at which exposure occurred.\nEthics statement\nThis ecological analysis was based on publicly available data and was exempt from ethical review.\nResults\nA complete list of dates of statewide social distancing measures, by type of measure and state, is contained in Table A in S1 Text. During March 10-25, all 50 states and the District of Columbia implemented at least 1 statewide social distancing measure (Fig A in S1 Text). The most widely enacted measures on the first date of implementation were cancellations of public events (34/51 [67%]) and closures of schools (26/51 [51%]). The first social distancing measures were implemented when the median statewide epidemic size was 35 cases (interquartile range [IQR] 17-72).\nFig 1A shows the mean daily COVID-19 case growth rate mapped against the date of the first statewide social distancing measures. At the date of implementation of the first social distancing measure, states had a mean daily case growth rate of 30.8% (95% CI 29.1-32.6; Table 1), corresponding to a doubling of total cases every 3.3 days. From 14 days prior to, and through 3 days after, implementation of the first social distancing measure, the mean daily case growth rate did not change (-0.2% per day; 95% CI -0.6% to 0.3%; P = 0.51). Beginning 4 days after implementation of the first statewide social distancing measure, the mean daily case growth rate decreased by an additional 0.9% per day (95% CI -0.4% to -1.4%; P &lt; 0.001). This estimate corresponds to a mean daily case growth rate that had declined to 26.5% (doubling of total cases every 3.8 days) by day 7 after enactment of the first statewide social distancing measures, to 19.6% (doubling time of 5.1 days) by day 14, and to 12.7% (doubling time of 7.9 days) by day 21.\nScatter plots and predictive margins with 95% confidence interval derived from regression models of the daily COVID-19 growth rate before versus after implementation of the first statewide social distancing measures and statewide restrictions on internal movement.\n(A) First statewide social distancing measure. (B) Statewide restrictions on internal movement. The red line indicates the date of implementation in each state. The green dashed line is 4 days after implementation of the social distancing measure. COVID-19, coronavirus disease 2019.\nLinear regression models for the growth in mean daily COVID-19 cases before versus after implementation of the first statewide social distancing measure and statewide restrictions on internal movement.\nVariable	First statewide social distancing measure	Statewide restrictions on internal movement	 	b	95% CI	P value	b	95% CI	P value	 	Constant	0.309	0.291, 0.326	&lt;0.001	0.183	0.164, 0.201	&lt;0.001	 	Time (days relative to intervention)	-0.002	-0.006, 0.003	0.44	-0.008	-0.009, -0.006	&lt;0.001	 	Post-intervention period	0.006	-0.017, 0.029	0.59	-0.031	-0.047, -0.015	&lt;0.001	 	Time x post-intervention period	-0.009	-0.014, -0.004	&lt;0.001	0.001	-0.0004, 0.003	0.14	 	\nThe post-intervention period begins 4 days after social distancing measures were implemented, to account for the disease incubation period.\nb, estimated regression coefficient. CI, confidence interval; COVID-19, coronavirus disease 2019.\nAs of May 1, nearly all (45 [90%]) states had implemented statewide restrictions on internal movement. These restrictions on internal movement were implemented a median of 11 days (IQR 8-15) after the first statewide social distancing measure was implemented in the respective states, when the median statewide epidemic size was 937 cases (IQR 225-1,414). The mean daily case growth rate was already declining, at a mean rate of -0.8% per day, during the 14 days prior to implementation of statewide restrictions on internal movement (95% CI -0.9% to -0.7%; P &lt; 0.001) (Table 1; Fig 1B). There was a drop detected 3 days after statewide restrictions on internal movement were implemented (-3.1%; 95% CI -4.7% to -1.5%; P &lt; 0.001), but no statistically significant difference in the rate of change before versus after implementation (0.1% per day; 95% CI -0.04% to 0.3%; P = 0.14). As discussed in more detail below, there is substantial difficulty in disentangling the unique associations with statewide restrictions on internal movement from the unique associations with the first social distancing measures.\nIn the analysis of the secondary outcome, change in daily COVID-19-attributed deaths, given the uncertainty in the hypothesized lag between implementation of social distancing and observed changes (if any) in daily COVID-19-attributed deaths, we explored a range of lag times. As shown in Table 2, by 7 days after implementation of the first statewide social distancing measure, the mean daily growth rate in COVID-19-attributed deaths decreased by 2.0% per day (95% CI -3.0% to -0.9%; P &lt; 0.001). By 14 days, the estimated association was no longer statistically significant (-1.0% per day; 95% CI -0.2% to 0.1%; P = 0.09). No additional statistically significant benefit was found after 7 days after implementation of statewide restrictions on internal movement.\nLinear regression models for growth in mean daily COVID-19-attributed deaths before versus after implementation of the first statewide social distancing measure and statewide restrictions on internal movement, assuming a range of expected days between symptom onset and death.\nTime after implementation at which post-intervention period begins	First statewide social distancing measure	Statewide restriction on internal movement	 	b	95% CI	P value	b	95% CI	P value	 	4 days	-0.018	-0.033, -0.002	0.02	-0.005	-0.009, -0.002	0.005	 	7 days	-0.020	-0.030, -0.009	&lt;0.001	-0.002	-0.006, 0.002	0.29	 	10 days	-0.010	-0.021, 0.015	0.09	-0.000	-0.002, 0.002	0.98	 	14 days	0.001	-0.004, 0.007	0.78	0.002	0.000, 0.004	0.02	 	17 days	0.001	-0.003, 0.006	0.53	0.003	0.001, 0.006	0.001	 	\nEach row corresponds to a separate regression model fitted to the data that includes 3 variables: time in days, implementation period, and a time-by-implementation-period product term. The start of the post-intervention period specified in the regression models varies from 4 to 17 days after social distancing measures were implemented, to account for the disease incubation period as well as uncertainty in the expected time from symptom onset to death.\nb, estimated regression coefficient; CI, confidence interval; COVID-19, coronavirus disease 2019.\nSensitivity analyses suggested our estimates were not sensitive to inclusion of additional covariates, did not differ by the size of the epidemic at implementation, and were consistent with the known incubation period (Tables B, C, and D in S1 Text). In the event study specification, mean daily case growth was negative by day 4, and the estimates were statistically significant by day 8, consistent with the primary analysis (Fig B in S1 Text). The event study analysis for change in daily COVID-19-attributed deaths also produced estimates qualitatively similar to the primary analysis, although with slightly larger CIs given the smaller number of events (Fig C in S1 Text).\nDiscussion\nIn this longitudinal pretest-posttest comparison group study, we found that implementation of social distancing measures was associated with a reduction in the mean daily growth rate of COVID-19 cases and in the mean daily growth rate of COVID-19-attributed deaths. Our estimates imply a more than doubling in the doubling time (from 3.8 days to 8.0 days) by 3 weeks following the implementation of social distancing measures. Assuming a cumulative epidemic size of 4,125 reported cases (equivalent to the cumulative number of cases in the US at the time of implementation in each state), the reduction in growth rate we estimated corresponds to a difference between 26,281 reported cases with no social distancing versus 24,625 reported cases with social distancing, at 7 days after implementation; a difference between 158,518 reported cases with no social distancing versus 102,223 reported cases with social distancing, at 14 days after implementation; and a difference between 904,773 reported cases with no social distancing versus 283,161 reported cases with social distancing, at 21 days after implementation. Stated differently, our model implies that social distancing reduced the total number of reported COVID-19 cases by approximately 1,600 cases at 7 days after implementation, by approximately 56,000 reported cases at 14 days after implementation, and by approximately 621,000 reported cases at 21 days after implementation. It can be inferred that earlier implementation of social distancing measures would likely have reduced morbidity and mortality even further.\nThese results are consistent with both the theoretical effect of social distancing on epidemic spread and the historical benefit observed with the implementation of such interventions during prior epidemics of communicable diseases. They also are largely in keeping with recent data on the impacts of social distancing measures in the US on both mobility and case growth rates, with generally similar effect sizes. Our study extends this literature by further examining COVID-19-attributed mortality as an outcome. The association between social distancing and case growth rate was most apparent at the lower bound of the incubation period that has been estimated based on publicly available data, with some evidence that the change in growth rate may have started even earlier. We suspect that this observation may have resulted from self-imposed social distancing, which reportedly occurred prior to government-issued mandates.\nOur findings should be interpreted with the following limitations in mind. Our estimates would be biased toward the null if (1) state and local governments intensified social distancing measures in response to a worsening epidemic, (2) there were substantial violations of the stable unit treatment value assumption (e.g., workplace closures of large employers that had spillover effects across state lines), or (3) surveillance and testing intensified during the study period (thereby resulting in increased case reporting). Moreover, statewide restrictions on internal movement were often implemented after other social distancing measures had already been applied, further biasing our estimate toward the null. Estimates of cases and deaths in our model include both those that are laboratory-confirmed and those that are suspected by health departments, but both are likely to be underestimates due to limitations in testing, the presence of asymptomatic cases, and the occurrence of COVID-19-related deaths that are not attributed to COVID-19. Nonetheless, our analyses focus on day-to-day changes in the growth rate of cases and deaths, so underreporting would only bias our results if reported versus true outcomes systematically differed prior to versus after the implementation of social distancing measures. In contrast, our projected estimates of cases prevented are likely to be highly conservative, because they are modeled based on reported cases. While some studies have suggested that cases have been underreported in the US by 1-2 orders of magnitude, deaths appear to be undercounted by approximately 25%. Finally, our estimate of the association between social distancing and change in mean daily case growth rate (and the corresponding number of cases averted) cannot be extrapolated linearly beyond the 21-day post-implementation analysis window. At the time of this analysis, states had begun to relax social distancing measures, which necessarily prevents drawing conclusions about the long-term associational effects of these interventions in isolation.\nOur study does not ascertain which of the statewide social distancing measures were most effective in reducing mean daily COVID-19 case growth. A variety of social distancing measures were used, often simultaneously, making it difficult to disentangle their independent associations. It is also possible that some state residents changed their behaviors in response to local (e.g., county-level) social distancing measures enacted prior to the statewide measures, or that some state residents changed their behaviors independently of social distancing measures enacted at any level of jurisdiction. The latter phenomenon has been observed empirically in other settings. Such behavior change would be consistent with our sensitivity analysis suggesting a signal that extends back to a 0-day incubation period.\nFinally, our analysis cannot answer questions about the appropriate time for rescinding social distancing measures. While our findings demonstrate that early mitigation efforts have yielded a substantial population health benefit, such benefits should be weighed against their costs. The costs of social distancing are likely to exacerbate the confluence of longstanding economic, social, and health decline that is already occurring in the US, brought into even sharper relief given emerging data about racial, ethnic, and socioeconomic disparities in the incidence of COVID-19-related burden. Moreover, there is currently robust debate about the extent to which legal authority to initiate or rescind social distancing measures resides with the federal or local government. Additional study may be possible in the coming weeks to months if some statewide social distancing measures are relaxed while others are retained, or if measures are relaxed in some local jurisdictions while being retained in others. The use of cross-country data may also be helpful in this regard, albeit limited by any substantial within-country heterogeneity (such as has been observed in the diversity of uncoordinated US federal and state responses to the epidemic).\nOur finding that implementation of statewide social distancing was associated with a reduction in the mean daily growth rate of COVID-19-attributed deaths should be interpreted with more caution, given the uncertainty in published estimates of the median time from symptom onset to death. The strongest association we estimated, in terms of both statistical significance and magnitude, occurred at 7 days after implementation. While this association could be reflective of what is known about time to death for the median hospitalized patient, other plausible lag times were not associated with a statistically significant reduction in the mean daily growth rate of COVID-19-attributed deaths.\nThe finding that implementation of statewide restrictions on internal movement was associated neither with a statistically significant reduction in the mean daily growth rate of COVID-19 cases nor with a statistically significant reduction in the mean daily growth rate of COVID-19-attributed deaths warrants additional scrutiny. Identification of the unique effect of statewide restrictions on internal movement, separate from that of the initial social distancing measures, is a difficult undertaking given that restrictions on internal movement were implemented a median of 10 days later. There were no states in which statewide restrictions on internal movement were implemented without the prior implementation of other social distancing measures (e.g., cancellations of public events and closures of schools). As a result, we could not test hypotheses about the independent causal effects of statewide restrictions on internal movement, but rather could only ascertain the extent to which these restrictions were associated with additional reductions in the COVID-19 case growth rate, i.e., beyond those generated by the initial statewide social distancing measures. Moreover, the null finding should be interpreted in light of the other likely biases toward the null previously discussed.\nIn summary we demonstrate that the US COVID-19 epidemic growth rate began to decline within approximately 1 incubation period following the initiation of statewide social distancing measures. Exploratory findings suggest that social distancing may also have had lagged mortality benefits. Future work should consider the potential public health benefits of relaxing these measures and, specifically, to what extent and how differential relaxation of certain measures promotes persistent epidemic control.\nSupporting information\nAbbreviations\nCI\nconfidence interval\nCOVID-19\ncoronavirus disease 2019\nIQR\ninterquartile range\nReferences\nProjecting the transmission dynamics of SARS-CoV-2 through the postpandemic period\nNonpharmaceutical interventions implemented by US cities during the 1918-1919 influenza pandemic\nThe effect of public health measures on the 1918 influenza pandemic in U.S. cities\nStrategies for containing an emerging influenza pandemic in Southeast Asia\n1918 influenza: the mother of all pandemics\nImpact of self-imposed prevention measures and short-term government-imposed social distancing on mitigating and delaying a COVID-19 epidemic: a modelling study\nAndersen M. Early evidence on social distancing in response to COVID-19 in the United States. SSRN Working Paper No. 3569368 [preprint]. Amsterdam: Elsevier; 2020 [cited 2020 Jun 2]. Available from: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3569368.\nThe immediate effect of COVID-19 policies on social distancing behavior in the United States\nStrong social distancing measures in the United States reduced the COVID-19 growth rate\nDave DM, Friedson AI, Matsuzawa K, Sabia JJ. When do shelter-in-place orders fight COVID-19 best? Policy heterogeneity across states and adoption time. NBER Working Paper No. 27091 [preprint]. Cambridge: National Bureau of Economic Research; 2020 [cited 2020 Jun 2]. Available from: https://www.nber.org/papers/w27091.\nThe effect of large-scale anti-contagion policies on the COVID-19 pandemic\nImpact of school closures for COVID-19 on the US health-care workforce and net mortality: a modelling study\nEichenbaum MS, Rebelo S, Trabandt M. The macroeconomics of epidemics. NBER Working Paper No. 26882 [preprint]. Cambridge: National Bureau of Economic Research; 2020 [cited 2020 Jun 2]. Available from: https://www.nber.org/papers/w26882.\nPetherick A, Hale T, Phillips T, Webster S. Variation in government responses to COVID-19. Blavatnik School Working Paper [preprint]. Oxford: University of Oxford Blavatnik School of Government; 2020 [cited 2020 Jun 2]. Available from: https://www.bsg.ox.ac.uk/research/publications/variation-government-responses-covid-19.\nThe incubation period of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) from publicly reported confirmed cases: estimation and application\nIncubation period of 2019 novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV) infections among travellers from Wuhan, China, 20-28 January 2020\nClinical characteristics of coronavirus disease 2019 in China\nClinical course and risk factors for mortality of adult inpatients with COVID-19 in Wuhan, China: a retrospective cohort study\nEstimates of the severity of coronavirus disease 2019: a model-based analysis\nEstimating clinical severity of COVID-19 from the transmission dynamics in Wuhan, China\nSocial distancing to slow the U.S. COVID-19 epidemic: an interrupted time-series analysis\nLancet Infectious Diseases Commission. Preparedness for emerging epidemic threats: a Lancet Infectious Diseases Commission\nMathematical models of infectious disease transmission\nDisease outbreak detection system using syndromic data in the greater Washington DC area\nCorrecting for day of the week and public holiday effects: improving a national daily syndromic surveillance service for detecting public health threats\nPublic health interventions and epidemic intensity during the 1918 influenza pandemic\nJob displacement and mortality: an analysis using administrative data\nEarnings losses of displaced workers\nGoodman-Bacon A. Difference-in-differences with variation in treatment timing. NBER Working Paper No. 25018 [preprint]. Cambridge: National Bureau of Economic Research; 2018 [cited 2020 Jun 2]. Available from: https://www.nber.org/papers/w25018.\nHow much should we trust differences-in-differences estimates?\nThe COVID-19 pandemic: government versus community action across the United States\nEstimation of excess deaths associated with the COVID-19 pandemic in the United States, March to May 2020\nExcess mortality in the United States during the peak of the COVID-19 pandemic\nEstimating the prevalence of COVID-19 in the United States: three complementary approaches\nImpact assessment of non-pharmaceutical interventions against coronavirus disease 2019 and influenza in Hong Kong: an observational study\nIncidence, clinical outcomes, and transmission dynamics of severe coronavirus disease 2019 in California and Washington: prospective cohort study\nAssociation between automotive assembly plant closures and opioid overdose mortality in the United States: a difference-in-differences analysis\nAmerica's declining well-being, health, and life expectancy: not just a white problem\nU.S. county-level characteristics to inform equitable COVID-19 response\nUnequal protection: American inequality meets covid-19. The Economist. 2020 Apr 18.\nAuthority to reopen U.S. for business in question\n","References depth 1":[{"doi":"10.1126/science.abb5793","date":"2020-04-09","title":"Projecting the transmission dynamics of SARS-CoV-2 through the postpandemic period","abstract":"It is urgent to understand the future of severe acute respiratory syndromecoronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) transmission.\n We used estimates of seasonality, immunity, and cross-immunity for betacoronaviruses OC43 and HKU1 from time series data from the USA to inform a model of SARS-CoV-2 transmission.\n We projected that recurrent wintertime outbreaks of SARS-CoV-2 will probably occur after the initial, most severe pandemic wave.\n Absent other interventions, a key metric for the success of social distancing is whether critical care capacities are exceeded.\n To avoid this, prolonged or intermittent social distancing may be necessary into 2022. Additional interventions, including expanded critical care capacity and an effective therapeutic, would improve the success of intermittent distancing and hasten the acquisition of herd immunity.\n Longitudinal serological studies are urgently needed to determine the extent and duration of immunity to SARS-CoV-2. Even in the event of apparent elimination, SARS-CoV-2 surveillance should be maintained since a resurgence in contagion could be possible as late as 2024.","id":"PMC7164482","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"American Association for the Advancement of Science","authors":[{"firstname":"Stephen M.","surname":"Kissler","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Christine","surname":"Tedijanto","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Christine","surname":"Tedijanto","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Edward","surname":"Goldstein","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Edward","surname":"Goldstein","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yonatan H.","surname":"Grad","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yonatan H.","surname":"Grad","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Marc","surname":"Lipsitch","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Marc","surname":"Lipsitch","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}],"References depth 2":[{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"World Health Organization, Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) Situation Report - 66 (WHO, 2020); https://www.who.int/docs/default-source/coronaviruse/situation-reports/20200326-sitrep-66-covid-19.pdf?sfvrsn=9e5b8b48_2.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1101/2020.03.09.20033241","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The demand for inpatient and ICU beds for COVID-19 in the US: lessons from Chinese cities","abstract":"Background:\nid='P3'>Sustained spread of SARS-CoV-2 has happened in major US cities.\n\n Capacity needs in Chinese cities could inform the planning of local healthcare resources.\n\n\nMethods:\nid='P4'>We described the intensive care unit (ICU) and inpatient bed needs for confirmed COVID-19 patients in two Chinese cities (Wuhan and Guangzhou) from January 10 to February 29, 2020, and compared the timing of disease control measures in relation to the timing of SARS-CoV-2 community spread.\n\n We estimated the peak ICU bed needs in US cities if a Wuhan-like outbreak occurs.\n\n\nResults:\nid='P5'>In Wuhan, strict disease control measures were implemented six weeks after sustained local transmission of SARS-CoV-2. Between January 10 and February 29, COVID-19 patients accounted for an average of 637 ICU patients and 3,454 serious inpatients on each day.\n\n During the epidemic peak, 19,425 patients (24.5 per 10,000 adults) were hospitalized, 9,689 (12.2 per 10,000 adults) were considered to be in serious condition, and 2,087 patients (2.6 per 10,000 adults) needed critical care per day.\n\n In Guangzhou, strict disease control measures were implemented within one week of case importation.\n\n Between January 24 and February 29, COVID-19 accounted for an average of 9 ICU patients and 20 inpatients on each day.\n\n During the epidemic peak, 15 patients were in critical condition, and 38 were classified as serious.\n\n If a Wuhan-like outbreak were to happen in a US city, the need for healthcare resources may be higher in cities with a higher prevalence of vulnerable populations.\n\n\nConclusion:\nid='P6'>Even after the lockdown of Wuhan on January 23, the number of seriously ill COVID-19 patients continued to rise, exceeding local hospitalization and ICU capacities for at least a month.\n\n Plans are urgently needed to mitigate the effect of COVID-19 outbreaks on the local healthcare system in US cities.\n\n\n","id":"PMC7239072","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory","authors":[{"firstname":"Ruoran","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Caitlin","surname":"Rivers","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Qi","surname":"Tan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Megan B","surname":"Murray","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Eric","surname":"Toner","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Marc","surname":"Lipsitch","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"&quot;'Not a wave, a tsunami.' Italy hospitals at virus limit,&quot; AP NEWS, 13 March 2020; https://apnews.com/a4497f31bf5dbc1ff263e4263fc9f69e.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"&quot;COVID-19 infections rise in New York with peak weeks away.&quot; AP NEWS, 25 March 2020; https://apnews.com/7c7563cb82626a4042797c6aa6da260a.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/S0140-6736(13)60185-3","date":"1970-01-01","title":"SARS legacy: outbreak reporting is expected and respected","abstract":"","id":"PMC7138112","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Elsevier Ltd.","authors":[{"firstname":"David L","surname":"Heymann","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"John S","surname":"Mackenzie","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Malik","surname":"Peiris","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Transcript for the CDC Telebriefing Update on COVID-19 (CDC, 2020); https://www.cdc.gov/media/releases/2020/t0225-cdc-telebriefing-covid-19.html.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1098/rstb.2012.0200","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The antigenic evolution of influenza: drift or thrift?","abstract":"It is commonly assumed that antibody responses against the influenza virus are polarized in the following manner: strong antibody responses are directed at highly variable antigenic epitopes, which consequently undergo antigenic drift, while weak antibody responses develop against conserved epitopes.\n As the highly variable epitopes are in a constant state of flux, current antibody-based vaccine strategies are focused on the conserved epitopes in the expectation that they will provide some level of clinical protection after appropriate boosting.\n Here, we use a theoretical model to suggest the existence of epitopes of low variability, which elicit a high degree of both clinical and transmission-blocking immunity.\n We show that several epidemiological features of influenza and its serological and molecular profiles are consistent with this model of antigenic thrift, and that identifying the protective epitopes of low variability predicted by this model could offer a more viable alternative to regularly update the influenza vaccine than exploiting responses to weakly immunogenic conserved regions.\n","id":"PMC3678325","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"The Royal Society","authors":[{"firstname":"Paul S.","surname":"Wikramaratna","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Michi","surname":"Sandeman","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Mario","surname":"Recker","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Sunetra","surname":"Gupta","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1128/JVI.79.3.1595-1604.2005","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Complete genomic sequence of human coronavirus OC43: Molecular clock analysis suggests a relatively recent zoonotic coronavirus transmission event","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/j.tim.2016.03.003","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Epidemiology, Genetic Recombination, and Pathogenesis of Coronaviruses","abstract":"Human coronaviruses (HCoVs) were first described in the 1960s for patients with the common cold.\n Since then, more HCoVs have been discovered, including those that cause severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) and Middle East respiratory syndrome (MERS), two pathogens that, upon infection, can cause fatal respiratory disease in humans.\n It was recently discovered that dromedary camels in Saudi Arabia harbor three different HCoV species, including a dominant MERS HCoV lineage that was responsible for the outbreaks in the Middle East and South Korea during 2015. In this review we aim to compare and contrast the different HCoVs with regard to epidemiology and pathogenesis, in addition to the virus evolution and recombination events which have, on occasion, resulted in outbreaks amongst humans.\n","id":"PMC7125511","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Elsevier Ltd.","authors":[{"firstname":"Shuo","surname":"Su","email":"shuosu@njau.edu.cn","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Gary","surname":"Wong","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Weifeng","surname":"Shi","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jun","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Alexander C.K.","surname":"Lai","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jiyong","surname":"Zhou","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Wenjun","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yuhai","surname":"Bi","email":"beeyh@im.ac.cn","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"George F.","surname":"Gao","email":"gaof@im.ac.cn","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1016/j.jcv.2018.01.019","date":"2018-01-29","title":"Human coronavirus circulation in the United States 20142017<","abstract":"\n\n\n\nDuring July 2014June 2017, 854,575 human coronavirus tests were reported to NREVSS.\n","id":"PMC7106380","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Elsevier Science","authors":[{"firstname":"Marie E.","surname":"Killerby","email":"lxo9@cdc.gov","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Holly M.","surname":"Biggs","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Amber","surname":"Haynes","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Rebecca M.","surname":"Dahl","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Desiree","surname":"Mustaquim","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Susan I.","surname":"Gerber","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"John T.","surname":"Watson","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.4414/smw.2020.20224","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Potential impact of seasonal forcing on a SARS-CoV-2 pandemic","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1371/journal.pbio.1000316","date":"2010-01-20","title":"Absolute Humidity and the Seasonal Onset of Influenza in the Continental United States","abstract":"Here, the authors demonstrate that variations of absolute humidity explain both the onset of wintertime influenza transmission and the overarching seasonality of this pathogen in temperate regions.\n","id":"PMC2826374","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Public Library of Science","authors":[{"firstname":"Jeffrey","surname":"Shaman","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Virginia E.","surname":"Pitzer","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ccile","surname":"Viboud","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Bryan T.","surname":"Grenfell","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Marc","surname":"Lipsitch","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Neil M.","surname":"Ferguson","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Neil M.","surname":"Ferguson","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1093/aje/kwq347","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Absolute humidity and pandemic versus epidemic influenza","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.7554/eLife.30756","date":"2018-02-13","title":"Conjunction of factors triggering waves of seasonal influenza","abstract":"Using several longitudinal datasets describing putative factors affecting influenza incidence and clinical data on the disease and health status of over 150 million human subjects observed over a decade, we investigated the source and the mechanistic triggers of influenza epidemics.\n We conclude that the initiation of a pan-continental influenza wave emerges from the simultaneous realization of a complex set of conditions.\n The strongest predictor groups are as follows, ranked by importance: (1) the host populations socio- and ethno-demographic properties; (2) weather variables pertaining to specific humidity, temperature, and solar radiation; (3) the virus antigenic drift over time; (4) the host populations land-based travel habits, and; (5) recent spatio-temporal dynamics, as reflected in the influenza wave auto-correlation.\n The models we infer are demonstrably predictive (area under the Receiver Operating Characteristic curve 80%) when tested with out-of-sample data, opening the door to the potential formulation of new population-level intervention and mitigation policies.\n","id":"PMC5864297","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"eLife Sciences Publications, Ltd","authors":[{"firstname":"Ishanu","surname":"Chattopadhyay","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Emre","surname":"Kiciman","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Emre","surname":"Kiciman","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Joshua W","surname":"Elliott","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Joshua W","surname":"Elliott","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jeffrey L","surname":"Shaman","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Andrey","surname":"Rzhetsky","email":"arzhetsky@uchicago.edu","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Mark","surname":"Jit","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Mark","surname":"Jit","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Mark","surname":"Jit","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Mark","surname":"Jit","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Mark","surname":"Jit","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1017/S0950268800048019","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The time course of the immune response to experimental coronavirus infection of man","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/j.jinf.2013.03.015","date":"2013-03-31","title":"Cross-reactive antibodies in convalescent SARS patients' sera against the emerging novel human coronavirus EMC (2012) by both immunofluorescent and neutralizing antibody tests","abstract":"Objectives\nA severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS)-like disease due to a novel betacoronavirus, human coronavirus EMC (HCoV-EMC), has emerged recently.\n\n HCoV-EMC is phylogenetically closely related to Tylonycteris-bat-coronavirus-HKU4 and Pipistrellus-bat-coronavirus-HKU5 in Hong Kong.\n\n We conducted a seroprevalence study on archived sera from 94 game-food animal handlers at a wild life market, 28 SARS patients, and 152 healthy blood donors in Southern China to assess the zoonotic potential and evidence for intrusion of HCoV-EMC and related viruses into humans.\n\n\nMethods\nAnti-HCoV-EMC and anti-SARS-CoV antibodies were detected using screening indirect immunofluorescence (IF) and confirmatory neutralizing antibody tests.\n\n\nResults\nTwo (2.1%) animal handlers had IF antibody titer of ?1:20 against both HCoV-EMC and SARS-CoV with neutralizing antibody titer of &lt;1:10. No blood donor had antibody against either virus.\n\n Surprisingly, 17/28 (60.7%) of SARS patients had significant IF antibody titers with 7/28 (25%) having anti-HCoV-EMC neutralizing antibodies at low titers which significantly correlated with that of HCoV-OC43. Bioinformatics analysis demonstrated a significant B-cell epitope overlapping the heptad repeat-2 region of Spike protein.\n\n Virulence of SARS-CoV over other betacoronaviruses may boost cross-reactive neutralizing antibodies against other betacoronaviruses.\n\n\nConclusions\nConvalescent SARS sera may contain cross-reactive antibodies against other betacoronaviruses and confound seroprevalence study for HCoV-EMC.\n\n\n","id":"PMC7112694","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"The British Infection Association. Published by Elsevier Ltd.","authors":[{"firstname":"Kwok-Hung","surname":"Chan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jasper Fuk-Woo","surname":"Chan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Herman","surname":"Tse","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Honglin","surname":"Chen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Candy Choi-Yi","surname":"Lau","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jian-Piao","surname":"Cai","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Alan Ka-Lun","surname":"Tsang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xincai","surname":"Xiao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Kelvin Kai-Wang","surname":"To","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Susanna Kar-Pui","surname":"Lau","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Patrick Chiu-Yat","surname":"Woo","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Bo-Jiang","surname":"Zheng","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ming","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Kwok-Yung","surname":"Yuen","email":"kyyuen@hkucc.hku.hk","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1155/2006/152612","date":"1970-01-01","title":"An outbreak of human coronavirus OC43 infection and serological cross-reactivity with SARS coronavirus","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1001/jama.2020.2648","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Characteristics of and important lessons from the coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) outbreak in China: Summary of a report of 72 314 cases from the Chinese Center for Disease Control and Prevention","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1126/science.abb6936","date":"2020-03-27","title":"Quantifying SARS-CoV-2 transmission suggests epidemic control with digital contact tracing","abstract":"New analyses indicate that severe acute respiratory syndromecoronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) is more infectious and less virulent than the earlier SARS-CoV-1, which emerged in China in 2002. Unfortunately, the current virus has greater epidemic potential because it is difficult to trace mild or presymptomatic infections.\n As no treatment is currently available, the only tools that we can currently deploy to stop the epidemic are contact tracing, social distancing, and quarantine, all of which are slow to implement.\n However imperfect the data, the current global emergency requires more timely interventions.\n Ferretti et al.\n explored the feasibility of protecting the population (that is, achieving transmission below the basic reproduction number) using isolation coupled with classical contact tracing by questionnaires versus algorithmic instantaneous contact tracing assisted by a mobile phone application.\n For prevention, the crucial information is understanding the relative contributions of different routes of transmission.\n A phone app could show how finite resources must be divided between different intervention strategies for the most effective control.\n","id":"PMC7164555","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"American Association for the Advancement of Science","authors":[{"firstname":"Luca","surname":"Ferretti","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Chris","surname":"Wymant","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Chris","surname":"Wymant","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Michelle","surname":"Kendall","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Michelle","surname":"Kendall","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Lele","surname":"Zhao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Lele","surname":"Zhao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Anel","surname":"Nurtay","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Anel","surname":"Nurtay","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Lucie","surname":"Abeler-Drner","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Lucie","surname":"Abeler-Drner","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Michael","surname":"Parker","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Michael","surname":"Parker","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"David","surname":"Bonsall","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Christophe","surname":"Fraser","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Christophe","surname":"Fraser","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1016/S0140-6736(20)30567-5","date":"1970-01-01","title":"How will country-based mitigation measures influence the course of the COVID-19 epidemic?","abstract":"","id":"PMC7158572","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Elsevier Ltd.","authors":[{"firstname":"Roy M","surname":"Anderson","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hans","surname":"Heesterbeek","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Don","surname":"Klinkenberg","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"T Dirdre","surname":"Hollingsworth","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"N. Thakkar, R. Burstein, H. Hu, P. Selvaraj, D. Klein, Institute for Disease Modeling, Bill &amp; Melinda Gates Foundation, Social distancing and mobility reductions have reduced COVID-19 transmission in King County, WA (Institute for Disease Modeling, 2020); https://covid.idmod.org/data/Social_distancing_mobility_reductions_reduced_COVID_Seattle.pdf.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1101/2020.03.03.20029843","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Effect of non-pharmaceutical interventions for containing the COVID-19 outbreak in China","abstract":"Background\nid='P5'>The COVID-19 outbreak containment strategies in China based on non-pharmaceutical interventions (NPIs) appear to be effective.\n\n Quantitative research is still needed however to assess the efficacy of different candidate NPIs and their timings to guide ongoing and future responses to epidemics of this emerging disease across the World.\n\n\nMethods\nid='P6'>We built a travel network-based susceptible-exposed-infectious-removed (SEIR) model to simulate the outbreak across cities in mainland China.\n\n We used epidemiological parameters estimated for the early stage of outbreak in Wuhan to parameterise the transmission before NPIs were implemented.\n\n To quantify the relative effect of various NPIs, daily changes of delay from illness onset to the first reported case in each county were used as a proxy for the improvement of case identification and isolation across the outbreak.\n\n Historical and near-real time human movement data, obtained from Baidu location-based service, were used to derive the intensity of travel restrictions and contact reductions across China.\n\n The model and outputs were validated using daily reported case numbers, with a series of sensitivity analyses conducted.\n\n\nResults\nid='P7'>We estimated that there were a total of 114,325 COVID-19 cases (interquartile range [IQR] 76,776  164,576) in mainland China as of February 29, 2020, and these were highly correlated (p&lt;0.001, R2=0.86) with reported incidence.\n\n Without NPIs, the number of COVID-19 cases would likely have shown a 67-fold increase (IQR: 44  94), with the effectiveness of different interventions varying.\n\n The early detection and isolation of cases was estimated to prevent more infections than travel restrictions and contact reductions, but integrated NPIs would achieve the strongest and most rapid effect.\n\n If NPIs could have been conducted one week, two weeks, or three weeks earlier in China, cases could have been reduced by 66%, 86%, and 95%, respectively, together with significantly reducing the number of affected areas.\n\n However, if NPIs were conducted one week, two weeks, or three weeks later, the number of cases could have shown a 3-fold, 7-fold, and 18-fold increase across China, respectively.\n\n Results also suggest that the social distancing intervention should be continued for the next few months in China to prevent case numbers increasing again after travel restrictions were lifted on February 17, 2020.\nConclusion\nid='P8'>The NPIs deployed in China appear to be effectively containing the COVID-19 outbreak, but the efficacy of the different interventions varied, with the early case detection and contact reduction being the most effective.\n\n Moreover, deploying the NPIs early is also important to prevent further spread.\n\n Early and integrated NPI strategies should be prepared, adopted and adjusted to minimize health, social and economic impacts in affected regions around the World.\n\n\n","id":"PMC7276028","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory","authors":[{"firstname":"Shengjie","surname":"Lai","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Nick W","surname":"Ruktanonchai","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Liangcai","surname":"Zhou","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Olivia","surname":"Prosper","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Wei","surname":"Luo","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jessica R","surname":"Floyd","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Amy","surname":"Wesolowski","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Mauricio","surname":"Santillana","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Chi","surname":"Zhang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xiangjun","surname":"Du","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hongjie","surname":"Yu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Andrew J","surname":"Tatem","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"N. M. Ferguson, D. Laydon, G. Nedjati-Gilani, N. Imai, K. Ainslie, M. Baguelin, S. Bhatia, A. Boonyasiri, Z. Cucunuba, G. Cuomo-Dannenburg, A. Dighe, H. Fu, K. Gaythorpe, H. Thompson, R. Verity, E. Volz, H. Wang, Y. Wang, P. G. Walker, C. Walters, P. Winskill, C. Whittaker, C. A. Donnelly, S. Riley, A. C. Ghani, Impact of non-pharmaceutical interventions (NPIs) to reduce COVID- 19 mortality and healthcare demand (Imperial College COVID-19 Response Team, 2020); https://www.imperial.ac.uk/media/imperial-college/medicine/sph/ide/gida-fellowships/Imperial-College-COVID19-NPI-modelling-16-03-2020.pdf.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"&quot;Coronavirus: Thousands of extra hospital beds and staff,&quot; BBC News, 21 March 2020; https://www.bbc.com/news/uk-51989183.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/j.jhin.2020.03.008","date":"2020-03-04","title":"Makeshift hospitals for COVID-19 patients: where health-care workers and patients need sufficient ventilation for more protection","abstract":"","id":"PMC7124317","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"The Healthcare Infection Society. Published by Elsevier Ltd.","authors":[{"firstname":"C.","surname":"Chen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"B.","surname":"Zhao","email":"binzhao@tsinghua.edu.cn","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"&quot;Pentagon says it will give 5 million respirators, 2,000 ventilators to Health and Human Services for virus response,&quot; AP NEWS, 17 March 2020; https://apnews.com/79e98812b5b1592a134803b00c8d88b0.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"&quot;Coronavirus: How can China build a hospital so quickly?&quot; BBC News, 31 January 2020; https://www.bbc.com/news/world-asia-china-51245156.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, The National Respiratory and Enteric Virus Surveillance System (NREVSS) (CDC, 2020); https://www.cdc.gov/surveillance/nrevss/index.html.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1371/journal.pmed.1001051","date":"2011-05-18","title":"Predicting the Epidemic Sizes of Influenza A/H1N1, A/H3N2, and B: A Statistical Method","abstract":"Using weekly influenza surveillance data from the US CDC, Edward Goldstein and colleagues develop a statistical method to predict the sizes of epidemics caused by seasonal influenza strains.\n This method could inform decisions about the most appropriate vaccines or drugs needed early in the influenza season.\n","id":"PMC3130020","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Public Library of Science","authors":[{"firstname":"Edward","surname":"Goldstein","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Sarah","surname":"Cobey","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Saki","surname":"Takahashi","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Joel C.","surname":"Miller","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Marc","surname":"Lipsitch","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Derek A. T.","surname":"Cummings","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Derek A. T.","surname":"Cummings","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, FluView Interactive (CDC, 2018); https://www.cdc.gov/flu/weekly/fluviewinteractive.htm.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1093/aje/kwh255","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Different Epidemic Curves for Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome Reveal Similar Impacts of Control Measures","abstract":"Severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) has been the first severe contagious disease to emerge in the 21st century.\n The available epidemic curves for SARS show marked differences between the affected regions with respect to the total number of cases and epidemic duration, even for those regions in which outbreaks started almost simultaneously and similar control measures were implemented at the same time.\n The authors developed a likelihood-based estimation procedure that infers the temporal pattern of effective reproduction numbers from an observed epidemic curve.\n Precise estimates for the effective reproduction numbers were obtained by applying this estimation procedure to available data for SARS outbreaks that occurred in Hong Kong, Vietnam, Singapore, and Canada in 2003. The effective reproduction numbers revealed that epidemics in the various affected regions were characterized by markedly similar disease transmission potentials and similar levels of effectiveness of control measures.\n In controlling SARS outbreaks, timely alerts have been essential: Delaying the institution of control measures by 1 week would have nearly tripled the epidemic size and would have increased the expected epidemic duration by 4 weeks.\n","id":"PMC7110200","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Oxford University Press","authors":[{"firstname":"Jacco","surname":"Wallinga","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Peter","surname":"Teunis","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1098/rspb.2006.3754","date":"1970-01-01","title":"How generation intervals shape the relationship between growth rates and reproductive numbers","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1093/aje/kwt132","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Driving factors of influenza transmission in the Netherlands","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.7326/M20-0504","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The Incubation Period of Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) From Publicly Reported Confirmed Cases: Estimation and Application","abstract":"Background:\nA novel human coronavirus, severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2), was identified in China in December 2019. There is limited support for many of its key epidemiologic features, including the incubation period for clinical disease (coronavirus disease 2019 [COVID-19]), which has important implications for surveillance and control activities.\n\n\nObjective:\nTo estimate the length of the incubation period of COVID-19 and describe its public health implications.\n\n\nDesign:\nPooled analysis of confirmed COVID-19 cases reported between 4 January 2020 and 24 February 2020.\nSetting:\nNews reports and press releases from 50 provinces, regions, and countries outside Wuhan, Hubei province, China.\n\n\nParticipants:\nPersons with confirmed SARS-CoV-2 infection outside Hubei province, China.\n\n\nMeasurements:\nPatient demographic characteristics and dates and times of possible exposure, symptom onset, fever onset, and hospitalization.\n\n\nResults:\nThere were 181 confirmed cases with identifiable exposure and symptom onset windows to estimate the incubation period of COVID-19. The median incubation period was estimated to be 5.1 days (95% CI, 4.5 to 5.8 days), and 97.5% of those who develop symptoms will do so within 11.5 days (CI, 8.2 to 15.6 days) of infection.\n\n These estimates imply that, under conservative assumptions, 101 out of every 10000 cases (99th percentile, 482) will develop symptoms after 14 days of active monitoring or quarantine.\n\n\nLimitation:\nPublicly reported cases may overrepresent severe cases, the incubation period for which may differ from that of mild cases.\n\n\nConclusion:\nThis work provides additional evidence for a median incubation period for COVID-19 of approximately 5 days, similar to SARS.\n\n Our results support current proposals for the length of quarantine or active monitoring of persons potentially exposed to SARS-CoV-2, although longer monitoring periods might be justified in extreme cases.\n\n\nPrimary Funding Source:\nU.\n\nS.\n\n Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, National Institute of General Medical Sciences, and Alexander von Humboldt Foundation.\n\n\n","id":"PMC7081172","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"American College of Physicians","authors":[{"firstname":"Stephen A.","surname":"Lauer","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Kyra H.","surname":"Grantz","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Qifang","surname":"Bi","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Forrest K.","surname":"Jones","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Qulu","surname":"Zheng","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hannah R.","surname":"Meredith","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Andrew S.","surname":"Azman","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Nicholas G.","surname":"Reich","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Justin","surname":"Lessler","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.3390/jcm9020538","date":"2020-02-10","title":"Incubation Period and Other Epidemiological Characteristics of 2019 Novel Coronavirus Infections with Right Truncation: A Statistical Analysis of Publicly Available Case Data","abstract":"The geographic spread of 2019 novel coronavirus (COVID-19) infections from the epicenter of Wuhan, China, has provided an opportunity to study the natural history of the recently emerged virus.\n Using publicly available event-date data from the ongoing epidemic, the present study investigated the incubation period and other time intervals that govern the epidemiological dynamics of COVID-19 infections.\n Our results show that the incubation period falls within the range of 214 days with 95% confidence and has a mean of around 5 days when approximated using the best-fit lognormal distribution.\n The mean time from illness onset to hospital admission (for treatment and/or isolation) was estimated at 34 days without truncation and at 59 days when right truncated.\n Based on the 95th percentile estimate of the incubation period, we recommend that the length of quarantine should be at least 14 days.\n The median time delay of 13 days from illness onset to death (17 days with right truncation) should be considered when estimating the COVID-19 case fatality risk.\n","id":"PMC7074197","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"MDPI","authors":[{"firstname":"Natalie M.","surname":"Linton","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Tetsuro","surname":"Kobayashi","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Tetsuro","surname":"Kobayashi","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yichi","surname":"Yang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Katsuma","surname":"Hayashi","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Andrei R.","surname":"Akhmetzhanov","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Sung-mok","surname":"Jung","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Sung-mok","surname":"Jung","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Baoyin","surname":"Yuan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Baoyin","surname":"Yuan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ryo","surname":"Kinoshita","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hiroshi","surname":"Nishiura","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hiroshi","surname":"Nishiura","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"World Health Organization, Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) Situation Report - 51 (WHO, 2020); www.who.int/docs/default-source/coronaviruse/situation-reports/20200311-sitrep-51-covid-19.pdf?sfvrsn=1ba62e57_10.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1056/NEJMoa2001316","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Early Transmission Dynamics in Wuhan, China, of Novel CoronavirusInfected Pneumonia","abstract":"Background\nThe initial cases of novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV)infected pneumonia (NCIP) occurred in Wuhan, Hubei Province, China, in December 2019 and January 2020. We analyzed data on the first 425 confirmed cases in Wuhan to determine the epidemiologic characteristics of NCIP.\n\n\nMethods\nWe collected information on demographic characteristics, exposure history, and illness timelines of laboratory-confirmed cases of NCIP that had been reported by January 22, 2020. We described characteristics of the cases and estimated the key epidemiologic time-delay distributions.\n\n In the early period of exponential growth, we estimated the epidemic doubling time and the basic reproductive number.\n\n\nResults\nAmong the first 425 patients with confirmed NCIP, the median age was 59 years and 56% were male.\n\n The majority of cases (55%) with onset before January 1, 2020, were linked to the Huanan Seafood Wholesale Market, as compared with 8.6% of the subsequent cases.\n\n The mean incubation period was 5.2 days (95% confidence interval [CI], 4.1 to 7.0), with the 95th percentile of the distribution at 12.5 days.\n\n In its early stages, the epidemic doubled in size every 7.4 days.\n\n With a mean serial interval of 7.5 days (95% CI, 5.3 to 19), the basic reproductive number was estimated to be 2.2 (95% CI, 1.4 to 3.9).\n\n\nConclusions\nOn the basis of this information, there is evidence that human-to-human transmission has occurred among close contacts since the middle of December 2019. Considerable efforts to reduce transmission will be required to control outbreaks if similar dynamics apply elsewhere.\n\n Measures to prevent or reduce transmission should be implemented in populations at risk.\n\n (Funded by the Ministry of Science and Technology of China and others.\n\n)\n","id":"PMC7121484","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Massachusetts Medical Society","authors":[{"firstname":"Qun","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xuhua","surname":"Guan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Peng","surname":"Wu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xiaoye","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Lei","surname":"Zhou","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yeqing","surname":"Tong","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ruiqi","surname":"Ren","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Kathy S.M.","surname":"Leung","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Eric H.Y.","surname":"Lau","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jessica Y.","surname":"Wong","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xuesen","surname":"Xing","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Nijuan","surname":"Xiang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yang","surname":"Wu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Chao","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Qi","surname":"Chen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Dan","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Tian","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jing","surname":"Zhao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Man","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Wenxiao","surname":"Tu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Chuding","surname":"Chen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Lianmei","surname":"Jin","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Rui","surname":"Yang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Qi","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Suhua","surname":"Zhou","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Rui","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hui","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yinbo","surname":"Luo","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yuan","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ge","surname":"Shao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Huan","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zhongfa","surname":"Tao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yang","surname":"Yang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zhiqiang","surname":"Deng","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Boxi","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zhitao","surname":"Ma","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yanping","surname":"Zhang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Guoqing","surname":"Shi","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Tommy T.Y.","surname":"Lam","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Joseph T.","surname":"Wu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"George F.","surname":"Gao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Benjamin J.","surname":"Cowling","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Bo","surname":"Yang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Bo","surname":"Yang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Gabriel M.","surname":"Leung","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zijian","surname":"Feng","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1098/rspb.2006.0015","date":"1970-01-01","title":"What is the best control strategy for multiple infectious disease outbreaks?","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1101/2020.03.05.20031088","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Comparative Impact of Individual Quarantine vs. Active Monitoring of Contacts for the Mitigation of COVID-19: a modelling study","abstract":"Background\nid='P4'>Voluntary individual quarantine and voluntary active monitoring of contacts are core disease control strategies for emerging infectious diseases, such as COVID-19. Given the impact of quarantine on resources and individual liberty, it is vital to assess under what conditions individual quarantine can more effectively control COVID-19 than active monitoring.\n\n As an epidemic grows, it is also important to consider when these interventions are no longer feasible, and broader mitigation measures must be implemented.\n\n\nMethods\nid='P5'>To estimate the comparative efficacy of these case-based interventions to control COVID-19, we fit a stochastic branching model to reported parameters for the dynamics of the disease.\n\n Specifically, we fit to the incubation period distribution and each of two sets of the serial interval distribution: a shorter one with a mean serial interval of 4.8 days and a longer one with a mean of 7.5 days.\n\n To assess variable resource settings, we consider two feasibility settings: a high feasibility setting with 90% of contacts traced, a half-day average delay in tracing and symptom recognition, and 90% effective isolation; and low feasibility setting with 50% of contacts traced, a two-day average delay, and 50% effective isolation.\n\n\nFindings\nid='P6'>Our results suggest that individual quarantine in high feasibility settings where at least three-quarters of infected contacts are individually quarantined contains an outbreak of COVID-19 with a short serial interval (4.8 days) 84% of the time.\n\n However, in settings where this performance is unrealistically high and the outbreak continues to grow, so too will the burden of the number of contacts traced for active monitoring or quarantine.\n\n When resources are prioritized for scalable interventions such as social distancing, we show active monitoring or individual quarantine of high-risk contacts can contribute synergistically to mitigation efforts.\n\n\nInterpretation\nid='P7'>Our model highlights the urgent need for more data on the serial interval and the extent of presymptomatic transmission in order to make data-driven policy decisions regarding the cost-benefit comparisons of individual quarantine vs.\n\n active monitoring of contacts.\n\n To the extent these interventions can be implemented they can help mitigate the spread of COVID-19.\n","id":"PMC7239061","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory","authors":[{"firstname":"Corey M.","surname":"Peak","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Rebecca","surname":"Kahn","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yonatan H.","surname":"Grad","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Lauren M.","surname":"Childs","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ruoran","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Marc","surname":"Lipsitch","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Caroline O.","surname":"Buckee","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1073/pnas.0610941104","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Public health interventions and epidemic intensity during the 1918 influenza pandemic","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1097/EDE.0000000000000055","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The US 2009 A(H1N1) influenza epidemic: Quantifying the impact of school openings on the reproductive number","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"James Cook University, State of the Tropics 2017 Report: Sustainable Infrastructure in the Tropics (James Cook University, 2017); https://www.jcu.edu.au/state-of-the-tropics/publications/2017.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1038/srep11013","date":"2015-05-12","title":"Global Spatio-temporal Patterns of Influenza in the Post-pandemic Era","abstract":"We study the global spatio-temporal patterns of influenza dynamics.\n This is achieved by analysing and modelling weekly laboratory confirmed cases of influenza A and B from 138 countries between January 2006 and January 2015. The data were obtained from FluNet, the surveillance network compiled by the the World Health Organization.\n We report a pattern of skip-and-resurgence behavior between the years 2011 and 2013 for influenza H1N1pdm, the strain responsible for the 2009 pandemic, in Europe and Eastern Asia.\n In particular, the expected H1N1pdm epidemic outbreak in 2011/12 failed to occur (or skipped) in many countries across the globe, although an outbreak occurred in the following year.\n We also report a pattern of well-synchronized wave of H1N1pdm in early 2011 in the Northern Hemisphere countries, and a pattern of replacement of strain H1N1pre by H1N1pdm between the 2009 and 2012 influenza seasons.\n Using both a statistical and a mechanistic mathematical model, and through fitting the data of 108 countries, we discuss the mechanisms that are likely to generate these events taking into account the role of multi-strain dynamics.\n A basic understanding of these patterns has important public health implications and scientific significance.\n","id":"PMC4457022","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Nature Publishing Group","authors":[{"firstname":"Daihai","surname":"He","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Roger","surname":"Lui","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Lin","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Chi Kong","surname":"Tse","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Lin","surname":"Yang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Lewi","surname":"Stone","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1016/j.vaccine.2018.12.040","date":"2018-12-18","title":"Demonstrating vaccine effectiveness during a waning epidemic: A WHO/NIH meeting report on approaches to development and licensure of Zika vaccine candidates","abstract":"Since its peak in early 2016, the incidence of Zika virus (ZIKV) cases has declined to such low levels that Phase 3 field efficacy trials may be infeasible.\n While great progress was made to rapidly advance several vaccine candidates into Phase 1 and 2 clinical trials, in the absence of sustained viral transmission it may be difficult to evaluate the effectiveness of ZIKV vaccine candidates by conducting traditional clinical disease endpoint efficacy studies.\n However, ZIKV is still circulating at low levels in some areas and is likely to re-emerge in nave populations or in sites of prior epidemics once population immunity wanes.\n Therefore, the public health need for a ZIKV vaccine remains.\n To facilitate continued ZIKV vaccine development efforts, the World Health Organization's Initiative for Vaccine Research and the National Institutes of Healths National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases co-hosted a meeting of experts in March 2018 to identify strategies to demonstrate vaccine effectiveness in view of waning ZIKV disease incidence.\n This paper outlines points for consideration for developers, regulators, and other stakeholders working towards a licensed ZIKV vaccine.\n These deliberations may also be applicable to development of vaccines for other emerging infections where the size, unpredictability, and ephemeral nature of outbreaks makes clinical disease endpoint efficacy trials to demonstrate vaccine effectiveness infeasible.\n","id":"PMC6357529","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Elsevier Science","authors":[{"firstname":"Kirsten S.","surname":"Vannice","email":"kirsten.vannice@gmail.com","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"M. Cristina","surname":"Cassetti","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Robert W.","surname":"Eisinger","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Joachim","surname":"Hombach","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ivana","surname":"Knezevic","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hilary D.","surname":"Marston","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Annelies","surname":"Wilder-Smith","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Marco","surname":"Cavaleri","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Philip R.","surname":"Krause","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1126/science.abb3221","date":"2020-03-12","title":"Substantial undocumented infection facilitates the rapid dissemination of novel coronavirus (SARS-CoV-2)","abstract":"The virus causing coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) has now become pandemic.\n How has it managed to spread from China to all around the world within 3 to 4 months? Li et al.\n used multiple sources to infer the proportion of early infections that went undetected and their contribution to virus spread.\n The researchers combined data from Tencent, one of the world's largest social media and technology companies, with a networked dynamic metapopulation model and Bayesian inference to analyze early spread within China.\n They estimate that ?86% of cases were undocumented before travel restrictions were put in place.\n Before travel restriction and personal isolation were implemented, the transmission rate of undocumented infections was a little more than half that of the known cases.\n However, because of their greater numbers, undocumented infections were the source for ?80% of the documented cases.\n Immediately after travel restrictions were imposed, ?65% of cases were documented.\n These findings help to explain the lightning-fast spread of this virus around the world.\n","id":"PMC7164387","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"American Association for the Advancement of Science","authors":[{"firstname":"Ruiyun","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Sen","surname":"Pei","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Sen","surname":"Pei","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Bin","surname":"Chen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Bin","surname":"Chen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yimeng","surname":"Song","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yimeng","surname":"Song","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Tao","surname":"Zhang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Tao","surname":"Zhang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Wan","surname":"Yang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jeffrey","surname":"Shaman","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jeffrey","surname":"Shaman","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1016/j.micinf.2020.02.006","date":"2020-02-13","title":"Is COVID-19 receiving ADE from other coronaviruses?","abstract":"One of the most perplexing questions regarding the current COVID-19 coronavirus epidemic is the discrepancy between the severity of cases observed in the Hubei province of China and those occurring elsewhere in the world.\n One possible answer is antibody dependent enhancement (ADE) of SARS-CoV-2 due to prior exposure to other coronaviruses.\n ADE modulates the immune response and can elicit sustained inflammation, lymphopenia, and/or cytokine storm, one or all of which have been documented in severe cases and deaths.\n ADE also requires prior exposure to similar antigenic epitopes, presumably circulating in local viruses, making it a possible explanation for the observed geographic limitation of severe cases and deaths.\n","id":"PMC7102551","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Institut Pasteur. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.","authors":[{"firstname":"Jason A.","surname":"Tetro","email":"jason@jasontetro.com","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1007/s12250-020-00207-4","date":"2020-02-16","title":"Understanding SARS-CoV-2-Mediated Inflammatory Responses: From Mechanisms to Potential Therapeutic Tools","abstract":"id='Par1'>Currently there is no effective antiviral therapy for SARS-CoV-2 infection, which frequently leads to fatal inflammatory responses and acute lung injury.\n Here, we discuss the various mechanisms of SARS-CoV-mediated inflammation.\n We also assume that SARS-CoV-2 likely shares similar inflammatory responses.\n Potential therapeutic tools to reduce SARS-CoV-2-induced inflammatory responses include various methods to block FcR activation.\n In the absence of a proven clinical FcR blocker, the use of intravenous immunoglobulin to block FcR activation may be a viable option for the urgent treatment of pulmonary inflammation to prevent severe lung injury.\n Such treatment may also be combined with systemic anti-inflammatory drugs or corticosteroids.\n However, these strategies, as proposed here, remain to be clinically tested for effectiveness.\n","id":"PMC7090474","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Springer Singapore","authors":[{"firstname":"Yajing","surname":"Fu","email":"fufu80s@sina.com","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yuanxiong","surname":"Cheng","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yuanxiong","surname":"Cheng","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yuntao","surname":"Wu","email":"ywu8@gmu.edu","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1126/science.abb4218","date":"2020-03-23","title":"The effect of human mobility and control measures on the COVID-19\nepidemic in China","abstract":"The ongoing COVID-19 outbreak expanded rapidly throughout China.\n Major\nbehavioral, clinical, and state interventions have been undertaken to mitigate\nthe epidemic and prevent the persistence of the virus in human populations in\nChina and worldwide.\n It remains unclear how these unprecedented interventions,\nincluding travel restrictions, affected COVID-19 spread in China.\n We use\nreal-time mobility data from Wuhan and detailed case data including travel\nhistory to elucidate the role of case importation on transmission in cities\nacross China and ascertain the impact of control measures.\n Early on, the spatial\ndistribution of COVID-19 cases in China was explained well by human mobility\ndata.\n Following the implementation of control measures, this correlation dropped\nand growth rates became negative in most locations, although shifts in the\ndemographics of reported cases were still indicative of local chains of\ntransmission outside Wuhan.\n This study shows that the drastic control measures\nimplemented in China substantially mitigated the spread of COVID-19.","id":"PMC7146642","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"American Association for the Advancement of Science","authors":[{"firstname":"Moritz U. G.","surname":"Kraemer","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Chia-Hung","surname":"Yang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Bernardo","surname":"Gutierrez","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Chieh-Hsi","surname":"Wu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Brennan","surname":"Klein","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"David M.","surname":"Pigott","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"NULL","surname":"NULL","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Louis","surname":"du Plessis","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Nuno R.","surname":"Faria","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ruoran","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"William P.","surname":"Hanage","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"John S.","surname":"Brownstein","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Maylis","surname":"Layan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Alessandro","surname":"Vespignani","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Huaiyu","surname":"Tian","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Christopher","surname":"Dye","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Oliver G.","surname":"Pybus","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Samuel V.","surname":"Scarpino","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1073/pnas.0900933106","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Influenza seasonality: Lifting the fog","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1056/NEJMe2007263","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Ten weeks to crush the curve","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"C. Tedijanto, c2-d2/CoV-seasonality: First release, Zenodo (2020); https://zenodo.org/record/3726085#.XpC68_7twwk.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"S. Kissler, nCoV_introduction, Version 4.0, Zenodo (2020); https://zenodo.org/record/3745557#.XpC7Y_7twwk.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1126/science.1086616","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Transmission dynamics and control of severe acute respiratory syndrome","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Comparison of three methods for selecting values of input variables in the analysis of output from a computer code","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1098/rsif.2016.0659","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Characterizing the reproduction number of epidemics with early subexponential growth dynamics","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"R Core Team, R: A language and environment for statistical computing (R Foundation for Statistical Computing, 2019); https://www.R-project.org/.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Solving differential equations in R: Package deSolve.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]}]},{"doi":"10.1001/jama.298.6.644","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Nonpharmaceutical interventions implemented by US cities during the 1918-1919 influenza pandemic","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"10.1073/pnas.0611071104","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The effect of public health measures on the 1918 influenza pandemic in U.S. cities","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"10.1038/nature04017","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Strategies for containing an emerging influenza pandemic in Southeast Asia","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"10.3201/eid1201.050979","date":"1970-01-01","title":"1918 Influenza: the Mother of All Pandemics","abstract":"The 'Spanish' influenza pandemic of 19181919, which caused ?50 million deaths worldwide, remains an ominous warning to public health.\n Many questions about its origins, its unusual epidemiologic features, and the basis of its pathogenicity remain unanswered.\n The public health implications of the pandemic therefore remain in doubt even as we now grapple with the feared emergence of a pandemic caused by H5N1 or other virus.\n However, new information about the 1918 virus is emerging, for example, sequencing of the entire genome from archival autopsy tissues.\n But, the viral genome alone is unlikely to provide answers to some critical questions.\n Understanding the 1918 pandemic and its implications for future pandemics requires careful experimentation and in-depth historical analysis.\n","id":"PMC3291398","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Centers for Disease Control and Prevention","authors":[{"firstname":"Jeffery K.","surname":"Taubenberger","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"David M.","surname":"Morens","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}],"References depth 2":[{"doi":"10.2307/4575511","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Statistics of influenza morbidity.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The geography and mortality of the 1918 influenza pandemic.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1353/bhm.2002.0022","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Updating the accounts: global mortality of the 1918-1920 &quot;Spanish&quot; influenza pandemic.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1084/jem.63.5.669","date":"1970-01-01","title":"THE INCIDENCE OF NEUTRALIZING ANTIBODIES FOR SWINE INFLUENZA VIRUS IN THE SERA OF HUMAN BEINGS OF DIFFERENT AGES","abstract":" Sera from a very high proportion of the human adults and new-born infants studied neutralized swine influenza virus; sera from children below the age of 12 years seldom exerted such an effect.\n The results of neutralization experiments with human sera and the virus of swine influenza have been compared with the outcome of similar tests with the virus of human influenza, and it seems evident that the presence of antibodies neutralizing swine influenza virus cannot be deemed the result of repeated exposures to the current human type of virus.\n From the known history of swine influenza and the similarity of its etiologic virus to that obtained from man it seems likely that the virus of swine influenza is the surviving prototype of the agent primarily responsible for the great human pandemic of 1918, as Laidlaw has already suggested.\n The presence in human sera of antibodies neutralizing swine influenza virus is believed to indicate a previous immunizing exposure to, or infection with, an influenza virus of the 1918 type.\n ","id":"PMC2133359","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"The Rockefeller University Press","authors":[{"firstname":"Richard E.","surname":"Shope","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.1016/0042-6822(78)90207-6","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Antigenic similarity of influenza A (H1N1) viruses from epidemics in 1977-1978 to &quot;Scandinavian&quot; strains isolated in epidemics of 1950-1951.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1126/science.275.5307.1793","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Initial genetic characterization of the 1918 &quot;Spanish&quot; influenza virus.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1073/pnas.031575198","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Sequence of the 1918 pandemic influenza virus nonstructural gene (NS) segment and characterization of recombinant viruses bearing the 1918 NS genes.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1073/pnas.96.4.1651","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Origin and evolution of the 1918 &quot;Spanish&quot; influenza virus hemagglutinin gene.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1128/JVI.78.22.12462-12470.2004","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Novel origin of the 1918 pandemic influenza virus nucleoprotein gene segment.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1128/JVI.76.21.10717-10723.2002","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Characterization of the 1918 &quot;Spanish&quot; influenza virus matrix gene segment.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1073/pnas.100140097","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Characterization of the 1918 &quot;Spanish&quot; influenza virus neuraminidase gene.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"1918 influenza pandemic caused by highly conserved viruses with two receptor-binding variants.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1038/nature04230","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Characterization of the 1918 influenza virus polymerase genes.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The 1918 flu and other influenza pandemics: &quot;over there&quot; and back again.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1038/nrmicro1027","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Evidence of an absence: the genetic origins of the 1918 pandemic influenza virus","abstract":"id='Par4'>Annual outbreaks of influenza A infection are an ongoing public health threat and novel influenza strains can periodically emerge to which humans have little immunity, resulting in devastating pandemics.\n The 1918 pandemic killed at least 40 million people worldwide and pandemics in 1957 and 1968 caused hundreds of thousands of deaths.\n The influenza A virus is capable of enormous genetic variation, both by continuous, gradual mutation and by reassortment of genome segments between viruses.\n Both the 1957 and 1968 pandemic strains are thought to have originated as reassortants in which one or both human-adapted viral surface proteins were replaced by proteins from avian influenza strains.\n Analyses of the genes of the 1918 pandemic virus, however, indicate that this strain might have had a different origin.\n The haemagglutinin and nucleoprotein genome segments in particular are unlikely to have come directly from an avian source that is similar to those that are currently being sequenced.\n Determining whether a pandemic influenza virus can emerge by different mechanisms will affect the scope and focus of surveillance and prevention efforts.\n","id":"PMC7097663","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Nature Publishing Group UK","authors":[{"firstname":"Ann H.","surname":"Reid","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jeffery K.","surname":"Taubenberger","email":"taubenbe@afip.osd.mil","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Thomas G.","surname":"Fanning","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.1006/viro.2000.0495","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The 1918 influenza virus: a killer comes into view.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The recent epidemic of grip.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/S1473-3099(02)00185-8","date":"1970-01-01","title":"World War I may have allowed the emergence of &quot;Spanish&quot; influenza.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1128/JVI.76.15.7860-7862.2002","date":"1970-01-01","title":"1917 avian influenza virus sequences suggest that the 1918 pandemic virus did not acquire its hemagglutinin directly from birds.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1637/0005-2086-47.s3.921","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Relationship of pre-1918 avian influenza HA and NP sequences to subsequent avian influenza strains.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Evolution of the H3 influenza virus hemagglutinin from human and nonhuman hosts.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1038/333426a0","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Structure of the influenza virus haemagglutinin complexed with its receptor, sialic acid.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1006/viro.1997.8572","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Specification of receptor-binding phenotypes of influenza virus isolates from different hosts using synthetic sialylglycopolymers: non-egg-adapted human H1 and H3 influenza A and influenza B viruses share a common high binding affinity for 6'-sialyl(N-acetyllactosamine).","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1006/viro.1997.8580","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Avian influenza A viruses differ from human viruses by recognition of sialyloigosaccharides and gangliosides and by a higher conservation of the HA receptor-binding site.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1128/JVI.79.17.11533-11536.2005","date":"1970-01-01","title":"A single amino acid substitution in the 1918 influenza virus hemagglutinin changes the receptor binding specificity.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1038/nature02951","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Enhanced virulence of influenza A viruses with the haemagglutinin of the 1918 pandemic virus.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1128/JVI.78.17.9499-9511.2004","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Global host immune response: pathogenesis and transcriptional profiling of type A influenza viruses expressing the hemagglutinin and neuraminidase genes from the 1918 pandemic virus.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Pandemic versus epidemic influenza mortality: a pattern of changing age distribution.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.2307/4575271","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The epidemiology of influenza.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.2307/4580139","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Age and sex incidence of influenza and pneumonia morbidity and mortality in the epidemic of 1928-1929 with comparative data for the epidemic of 1918-1919.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Influenza: Learn from the past.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/S0140-6736(04)15595-5","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Re-emergence of fatal human influenza A subtype H5N1 disease","abstract":"Human disease associated with influenza A subtype H5N1 reemerged in January, 2003, for the first time since an outbreak in Hong Kong in 1997. Patients with H5N1 disease had unusually high serum concentrations of chemokines (eg, interferon induced protein-10 [IP-10] and monokine induced by interferon ? [MIG]).\n Taken together with a previous report that H5N1 influenza viruses induce large amounts of proinflam-matory cytokines from macrophage cultures in vitro, our findings suggest that cytokine dysfunction contributes to the pathogenesis of H5N1 disease.\n Development of vaccines against influenza A (H5N1) virus should be made a priority.\n","id":"PMC7112424","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Elsevier Ltd.","authors":[{"firstname":"JSM","surname":"Peiris","email":"malik@hkucc.hku.hk","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"WC","surname":"Yu","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"CW","surname":"Leung","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"CY","surname":"Cheung","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"WF","surname":"Ng","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"JM","surname":"Nicholls","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"TK","surname":"Ng","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"KH","surname":"Chan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"ST","surname":"Lai","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"WL","surname":"Lim","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"KY","surname":"Yuen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Y","surname":"Guan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]}]},{"doi":"10.1371/journal.pmed.1003166","date":"2020-06-11","title":"Impact of self-imposed prevention measures and short-term government-imposed social distancing on mitigating and delaying a COVID-19 epidemic: A modelling study","abstract":"Background\nThe coronavirus disease (COVID-19) caused by the severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) has spread to nearly every country in the world since it first emerged in China in December 2019. Many countries have implemented social distancing as a measure to flatten the curve of the ongoing epidemics.\n\n Evaluation of the impact of government-imposed social distancing and of other measures to control further spread of COVID-19 is urgent, especially because of the large societal and economic impact of the former.\n\n The aim of this study was to compare the individual and combined effectiveness of self-imposed prevention measures and of short-term government-imposed social distancing in mitigating, delaying, or preventing a COVID-19 epidemic.\n\n\nMethods and findings\nWe developed a deterministic compartmental transmission model of SARS-CoV-2 in a population stratified by disease status (susceptible, exposed, infectious with mild or severe disease, diagnosed, and recovered) and disease awareness status (aware and unaware) due to the spread of COVID-19. Self-imposed measures were assumed to be taken by disease-aware individuals and included handwashing, mask-wearing, and social distancing.\n\n Government-imposed social distancing reduced the contact rate of individuals irrespective of their disease or awareness status.\n\n The model was parameterized using current best estimates of key epidemiological parameters from COVID-19 clinical studies.\n\n The model outcomes included the peak number of diagnoses, attack rate, and time until the peak number of diagnoses.\n\n For fast awareness spread in the population, self-imposed measures can significantly reduce the attack rate and diminish and postpone the peak number of diagnoses.\n\n We estimate that a large epidemic can be prevented if the efficacy of these measures exceeds 50%.\n\n For slow awareness spread, self-imposed measures reduce the peak number of diagnoses and attack rate but do not affect the timing of the peak.\n\n Early implementation of short-term government-imposed social distancing alone is estimated to delay (by at most 7 months for a 3-month intervention) but not to reduce the peak.\n\n The delay can be even longer and the height of the peak can be additionally reduced if this intervention is combined with self-imposed measures that are continued after government-imposed social distancing has been lifted.\n\n Our analyses are limited in that they do not account for stochasticity, demographics, heterogeneities in contact patterns or mixing, spatial effects, imperfect isolation of individuals with severe disease, and reinfection with COVID-19.\nConclusions\nOur results suggest that information dissemination about COVID-19, which causes individual adoption of handwashing, mask-wearing, and social distancing, can be an effective strategy to mitigate and delay the epidemic.\n\n Early initiated short-term government-imposed social distancing can buy time for healthcare systems to prepare for an increasing COVID-19 burden.\n\n We stress the importance of disease awareness in controlling the ongoing epidemic and recommend that, in addition to policies on social distancing, governments and public health institutions mobilize people to adopt self-imposed measures with proven efficacy in order to successfully tackle COVID-19.\n","id":"PMC7373263","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Public Library of Science","authors":[{"firstname":"Alexandra","surname":"Teslya","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Thi Mui","surname":"Pham","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Thi Mui","surname":"Pham","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Noortje G.","surname":"Godijk","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Noortje G.","surname":"Godijk","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Mirjam E.","surname":"Kretzschmar","email":"NULL","contributions":"3"},{"firstname":"Mirjam E.","surname":"Kretzschmar","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Martin C. J.","surname":"Bootsma","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Martin C. J.","surname":"Bootsma","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ganna","surname":"Rozhnova","email":"NULL","contributions":"4"},{"firstname":"Ganna","surname":"Rozhnova","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yuming","surname":"Guo","email":"NULL","contributions":"3"},{"firstname":"Yuming","surname":"Guo","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yuming","surname":"Guo","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ganna","surname":"Rozhnova","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ganna","surname":"Rozhnova","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Mirjam E.","surname":"Kretzschmar","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Adya","surname":"Misra","email":"NULL","contributions":"7"},{"firstname":"Adya","surname":"Misra","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Adya","surname":"Misra","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Adya","surname":"Misra","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Adya","surname":"Misra","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Adya","surname":"Misra","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Adya","surname":"Misra","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}],"References depth 2":[{"doi":"10.1371/journal.pmed.1003166","date":"2020-06-11","title":"Impact of self-imposed prevention measures and short-term government-imposed social distancing on mitigating and delaying a COVID-19 epidemic: A modelling study","abstract":"Background\nThe coronavirus disease (COVID-19) caused by the severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) has spread to nearly every country in the world since it first emerged in China in December 2019. Many countries have implemented social distancing as a measure to flatten the curve of the ongoing epidemics.\n\n Evaluation of the impact of government-imposed social distancing and of other measures to control further spread of COVID-19 is urgent, especially because of the large societal and economic impact of the former.\n\n The aim of this study was to compare the individual and combined effectiveness of self-imposed prevention measures and of short-term government-imposed social distancing in mitigating, delaying, or preventing a COVID-19 epidemic.\n\n\nMethods and findings\nWe developed a deterministic compartmental transmission model of SARS-CoV-2 in a population stratified by disease status (susceptible, exposed, infectious with mild or severe disease, diagnosed, and recovered) and disease awareness status (aware and unaware) due to the spread of COVID-19. Self-imposed measures were assumed to be taken by disease-aware individuals and included handwashing, mask-wearing, and social distancing.\n\n Government-imposed social distancing reduced the contact rate of individuals irrespective of their disease or awareness status.\n\n The model was parameterized using current best estimates of key epidemiological parameters from COVID-19 clinical studies.\n\n The model outcomes included the peak number of diagnoses, attack rate, and time until the peak number of diagnoses.\n\n For fast awareness spread in the population, self-imposed measures can significantly reduce the attack rate and diminish and postpone the peak number of diagnoses.\n\n We estimate that a large epidemic can be prevented if the efficacy of these measures exceeds 50%.\n\n For slow awareness spread, self-imposed measures reduce the peak number of diagnoses and attack rate but do not affect the timing of the peak.\n\n Early implementation of short-term government-imposed social distancing alone is estimated to delay (by at most 7 months for a 3-month intervention) but not to reduce the peak.\n\n The delay can be even longer and the height of the peak can be additionally reduced if this intervention is combined with self-imposed measures that are continued after government-imposed social distancing has been lifted.\n\n Our analyses are limited in that they do not account for stochasticity, demographics, heterogeneities in contact patterns or mixing, spatial effects, imperfect isolation of individuals with severe disease, and reinfection with COVID-19.\nConclusions\nOur results suggest that information dissemination about COVID-19, which causes individual adoption of handwashing, mask-wearing, and social distancing, can be an effective strategy to mitigate and delay the epidemic.\n\n Early initiated short-term government-imposed social distancing can buy time for healthcare systems to prepare for an increasing COVID-19 burden.\n\n We stress the importance of disease awareness in controlling the ongoing epidemic and recommend that, in addition to policies on social distancing, governments and public health institutions mobilize people to adopt self-imposed measures with proven efficacy in order to successfully tackle COVID-19.\n","id":"PMC7373263","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Public Library of Science","authors":[{"firstname":"Alexandra","surname":"Teslya","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Thi Mui","surname":"Pham","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Thi Mui","surname":"Pham","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Noortje G.","surname":"Godijk","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Noortje G.","surname":"Godijk","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Mirjam E.","surname":"Kretzschmar","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Mirjam E.","surname":"Kretzschmar","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Martin C. J.","surname":"Bootsma","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Martin C. J.","surname":"Bootsma","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ganna","surname":"Rozhnova","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ganna","surname":"Rozhnova","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yuming","surname":"Guo","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yuming","surname":"Guo","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yuming","surname":"Guo","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ganna","surname":"Rozhnova","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ganna","surname":"Rozhnova","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Mirjam E.","surname":"Kretzschmar","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Adya","surname":"Misra","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Adya","surname":"Misra","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Adya","surname":"Misra","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Adya","surname":"Misra","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Adya","surname":"Misra","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Adya","surname":"Misra","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Adya","surname":"Misra","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Andersen M. Early evidence on social distancing in response to COVID-19 in the United States. SSRN Working Paper No. 3569368 [preprint]. Amsterdam: Elsevier; 2020 [cited 2020 Jun 2]. Available from: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3569368.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"10.1101/2020.04.07.20057356","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The immediate effect of COVID-19 policies on social distancing behavior in the United States","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[{"doi":"10.1016/S0140-6736(20)30567-5","date":"1970-01-01","title":"How will country-based mitigation measures influence the course of the COVID-19 epidemic?","abstract":"","id":"PMC7158572","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Elsevier Ltd.","authors":[{"firstname":"Roy M","surname":"Anderson","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hans","surname":"Heesterbeek","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Don","surname":"Klinkenberg","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"T Dirdre","surname":"Hollingsworth","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1056/NEJMp2002125","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Defining the epidemiology of COVID-19:studies needed","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/S2214-109X(20)30074-7","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Feasibility of controlling COVID-19 outbreaks by isolation of cases and contacts","abstract":"Background\nIsolation of cases and contact tracing is used to control outbreaks of infectious diseases, and has been used for coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19).\n\n Whether this strategy will achieve control depends on characteristics of both the pathogen and the response.\n\n Here we use a mathematical model to assess if isolation and contact tracing are able to control onwards transmission from imported cases of COVID-19.\nMethods\nWe developed a stochastic transmission model, parameterised to the COVID-19 outbreak.\n\n We used the model to quantify the potential effectiveness of contact tracing and isolation of cases at controlling a severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2)-like pathogen.\n\n We considered scenarios that varied in the number of initial cases, the basic reproduction number (R0), the delay from symptom onset to isolation, the probability that contacts were traced, the proportion of transmission that occurred before symptom onset, and the proportion of subclinical infections.\n\n We assumed isolation prevented all further transmission in the model.\n\n Outbreaks were deemed controlled if transmission ended within 12 weeks or before 5000 cases in total.\n\n We measured the success of controlling outbreaks using isolation and contact tracing, and quantified the weekly maximum number of cases traced to measure feasibility of public health effort.\n\n\nFindings\nSimulated outbreaks starting with five initial cases, an R0 of 15, and 0% transmission before symptom onset could be controlled even with low contact tracing probability; however, the probability of controlling an outbreak decreased with the number of initial cases, when R0 was 25 or 35 and with more transmission before symptom onset.\n\n Across different initial numbers of cases, the majority of scenarios with an R0 of 15 were controllable with less than 50% of contacts successfully traced.\n\n To control the majority of outbreaks, for R0 of 25 more than 70% of contacts had to be traced, and for an R0 of 35 more than 90% of contacts had to be traced.\n\n The delay between symptom onset and isolation had the largest role in determining whether an outbreak was controllable when R0 was 15. For R0 values of 25 or 35, if there were 40 initial cases, contact tracing and isolation were only potentially feasible when less than 1% of transmission occurred before symptom onset.\n\n\nInterpretation\nIn most scenarios, highly effective contact tracing and case isolation is enough to control a new outbreak of COVID-19 within 3 months.\n\n The probability of control decreases with long delays from symptom onset to isolation, fewer cases ascertained by contact tracing, and increasing transmission before symptoms.\n\n This model can be modified to reflect updated transmission characteristics and more specific definitions of outbreak control to assess the potential success of local response efforts.\n\n\nFunding\nWellcome Trust, Global Challenges Research Fund, and Health Data Research UK.\n\n\n","id":"PMC7097845","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd.","authors":[{"firstname":"Joel","surname":"Hellewell","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Sam","surname":"Abbott","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Amy","surname":"Gimma","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Nikos I","surname":"Bosse","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Christopher I","surname":"Jarvis","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Timothy W","surname":"Russell","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"James D","surname":"Munday","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Adam J","surname":"Kucharski","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"W John","surname":"Edmunds","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Fiona","surname":"Sun","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Stefan","surname":"Flasche","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Billy J","surname":"Quilty","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Nicholas","surname":"Davies","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yang","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Samuel","surname":"Clifford","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Petra","surname":"Klepac","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Mark","surname":"Jit","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Charlie","surname":"Diamond","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hamish","surname":"Gibbs","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Kevin","surname":"van Zandvoort","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Sebastian","surname":"Funk","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Sebastian","surname":"Funk","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Sebastian","surname":"Funk","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Rosalind M","surname":"Eggo","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1038/nature04795","date":"2006-04-11","title":"Strategies for mitigating an influenza pandemic","abstract":"Supplementary information\nThe online version of this article (doi:10.1038/nature04795) contains supplementary material, which is available to authorized users.\n\n\n","id":"PMC7095311","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Nature Publishing Group UK","authors":[{"firstname":"Neil M.","surname":"Ferguson","email":"neil.ferguson@imperial.ac.uk","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Derek A. T.","surname":"Cummings","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Christophe","surname":"Fraser","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"James C.","surname":"Cajka","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Philip C.","surname":"Cooley","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Donald S.","surname":"Burke","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.1101/2020.03.11.20033688","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Social distance and SARS memory: impact on the public awareness of 2019 novel coronavirus (COVID-19) outbreak [online ahead of print, March 16, 2020]","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1126/science.abb4218","date":"2020-03-23","title":"The effect of human mobility and control measures on the COVID-19\nepidemic in China","abstract":"The ongoing COVID-19 outbreak expanded rapidly throughout China.\n Major\nbehavioral, clinical, and state interventions have been undertaken to mitigate\nthe epidemic and prevent the persistence of the virus in human populations in\nChina and worldwide.\n It remains unclear how these unprecedented interventions,\nincluding travel restrictions, affected COVID-19 spread in China.\n We use\nreal-time mobility data from Wuhan and detailed case data including travel\nhistory to elucidate the role of case importation on transmission in cities\nacross China and ascertain the impact of control measures.\n Early on, the spatial\ndistribution of COVID-19 cases in China was explained well by human mobility\ndata.\n Following the implementation of control measures, this correlation dropped\nand growth rates became negative in most locations, although shifts in the\ndemographics of reported cases were still indicative of local chains of\ntransmission outside Wuhan.\n This study shows that the drastic control measures\nimplemented in China substantially mitigated the spread of COVID-19.","id":"PMC7146642","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"American Association for the Advancement of Science","authors":[{"firstname":"Moritz U. G.","surname":"Kraemer","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Chia-Hung","surname":"Yang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Bernardo","surname":"Gutierrez","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Chieh-Hsi","surname":"Wu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Brennan","surname":"Klein","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"David M.","surname":"Pigott","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"NULL","surname":"NULL","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Louis","surname":"du Plessis","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Nuno R.","surname":"Faria","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ruoran","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"William P.","surname":"Hanage","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"John S.","surname":"Brownstein","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Maylis","surname":"Layan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Alessandro","surname":"Vespignani","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Huaiyu","surname":"Tian","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Christopher","surname":"Dye","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Oliver G.","surname":"Pybus","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Samuel V.","surname":"Scarpino","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1016/S2214-109X(17)30393-5","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Global causes of blindness and distance vision impairment 1990-2020: a systematic review and meta-analysis","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1111/ecin.12944","date":"2020-07-24","title":"WHEN DO SHELTER?IN?PLACE ORDERS FIGHT COVID?19 BEST? POLICY HETEROGENEITY ACROSS STATES AND ADOPTION TIME","abstract":"This study explores the impact of Shelter?in?Place Orders (SIPOs) on health, with attention to heterogeneity in their impacts.\n First, using daily state?level social distancing data, we document that adoption of a SIPO was associated with a 9%10% increase in the rate at which state residents remained in their homes full?time.\n Using daily state?level coronavirus case data, we find that approximately 3 weeks following the adoption of a SIPO, cumulative COVID?19 cases fell by approximately 53.5%.\n However, this average effect masks important heterogeneity across states?early adopters and high population density states appear to reap larger benefits from their SIPOs.\n (JEL H75, I12, I18)\n","id":"PMC7436765","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Wiley Periodicals, Inc.","authors":[{"firstname":"Dhaval","surname":"Dave","email":"ddave@bentley.edu","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Andrew I.","surname":"Friedson","email":"andrew.friedson@ucdenver.edu","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Kyutaro","surname":"Matsuzawa","email":"qmatsuzawa@gmail.com","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Joseph J.","surname":"Sabia","email":"jsabia@sdsu.edu","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.1101/2020.04.13.20063628","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The effect of stay-at-home orders on COVID-19 infections in the United States [published online May 12, 2020]","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Staying at home: mobility effects of COVID-19. Center for Economic and Policy Research. May 12, 2020","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1377/hlthaff.2020.00608","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Strong social distancing measures in the United States reduced the COVID-19 growth rate","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1101/2020.03.30.20046326","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Pandemic politics: timing state-level social distancing responses to COVID-19 [published online March 31, 2020]","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.2139/ssrn.3569098","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Political beliefs affect compliance with COVID-19 social distancing orders [published online March 6, 2020; revised July 7, 2020]","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1377/hlthaff.2020.00719","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Shelter-in-place orders reduced COVID-19 mortality and reduced the rate of growth in hospitalizations","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"COVID-19 community mobility reports","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Google COVID-19 community mobility reports: anonymization process description (version 1.0) [published online April 8, 2020; revised April 9, 2020]","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"State data and policy actions to address coronavirus","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Mandated and voluntary social distancing during the COVID-19 epidemic. Brookings Working Paper. Published June 25, 2020","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1162/003355304772839588","date":"1970-01-01","title":"How much should we trust differences-in-differences estimates?","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Overwhelming number of smartphone users keep location services open. April 22, 2016","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1017/bca.2020.12","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The Benefits and Costs of Using Social Distancing to Flatten the Curve for COVID-19","abstract":"We examine the net benefits of social distancing to slow the spread of COVID-19 in USA.\n Social distancing saves lives but imposes large costs on society due to reduced economic activity.\n We use epidemiological and economic forecasting to perform a rapid benefitcost analysis of controlling the COVID-19 outbreak.\n Assuming that social distancing measures can substantially reduce contacts among individuals, we find net benefits of about $5.2 trillion in our benchmark case.\n We examine the magnitude of the critical parameters that might imply negative net benefits, including the value of statistical life and the discount rate.\n A key unknown factor is the speed of economic recovery with and without social distancing measures in place.\n A series of robustness checks also highlight the key role of the value of mortality risk reductions and discounting in the analysis and point to a need for effective economic stimulus when the outbreak has passed.\n","id":"PMC7242774","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Cambridge University Press","authors":[{"firstname":"Linda","surname":"Thunstrm","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Stephen C.","surname":"Newbold","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"David","surname":"Finnoff","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Madison","surname":"Ashworth","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jason F.","surname":"Shogren","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Report 9: impact of non-pharmaceutical interventions (NPIs) to reduce COVID-19 mortality and healthcare demand. March 16, 2020","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]}]},{"doi":"10.1377/hlthaff.2020.00608","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Strong social distancing measures in the United States reduced the COVID-19 growth rate","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Dave DM, Friedson AI, Matsuzawa K, Sabia JJ. When do shelter-in-place orders fight COVID-19 best? Policy heterogeneity across states and adoption time. NBER Working Paper No. 27091 [preprint]. Cambridge: National Bureau of Economic Research; 2020 [cited 2020 Jun 2]. Available from: https://www.nber.org/papers/w27091.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"10.1038/s41586-020-2404-8","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The effect of large-scale anti-contagion policies on the COVID-19 pandemic","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/S2468-2667(20)30082-7","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Impact of school closures for COVID-19 on the US health-care workforce and net mortality: a modelling study","abstract":"Background\nThe coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic is leading to social (physical) distancing policies worldwide, including in the USA.\n\n Some of the first actions taken by governments are the closing of schools.\n\n The evidence that mandatory school closures reduce the number of cases and, ultimately, mortality comes from experience with influenza or from models that do not include the effect of school closure on the health-care labour force.\n\n The potential benefits from school closures need to be weighed against costs of health-care worker absenteeism associated with additional child-care obligations.\n\n In this study, we aimed to measure child-care obligations for US health-care workers arising from school closures when these are used as a social distancing measure.\n\n We then assessed how important the contribution of health-care workers would have to be in reducing mortality for their absenteeism due to child-care obligations to undo the benefits of school closures in reducing the number of cases.\n\n\nMethods\nFor this modelling analysis, we used data from the monthly releases of the US Current Population Survey to characterise the family structure and probable within-household child-care options of US health-care workers.\n\n We accounted for the occupation within the health-care sector, state, and household structure to identify the segments of the health-care workforce that are most exposed to child-care obligations from school closures.\n\n We used these estimates to identify the critical level at which the importance of health-care labour supply in increasing the survival probability of a patient with COVID-19 would undo the benefits of school closures and ultimately increase cumulative mortality.\n\n\nFindings\nBetween January, 2018, and January, 2020, the US Current Population Survey included information on more than 31 million individuals across 13 million households.\n\n We found that the US health-care sector has some of the highest child-care obligations in the USA, with 288% (95% CI 285291) of the health-care workforce needing to provide care for children aged 312 years.\n\n Assuming non-working adults or a sibling aged 13 years or older can provide child care, 150% (148152) of the health-care workforce would still be in need of child care during a school closure.\n\n We observed substantial variation within the health-care system.\n\n We estimated that, combined with reasonable parameters for COVID-19 such as a 150% case reduction from school closings and 20% baseline mortality rate, a 150% decrease in the health-care labour force would need to decrease the survival probability per percent health-care worker lost by 176% for a school closure to increase cumulative mortality.\n\n Our model estimates that if the infection mortality rate of COVID-19 increases from 200% to 235% when the health-care workforce declines by 150%, school closures could lead to a greater number of deaths than they prevent.\n\n\nInterpretation\nSchool closures come with many trade-offs, and can create unintended child-care obligations.\n\n Our results suggest that the potential contagion prevention from school closures needs to be carefully weighted with the potential loss of health-care workers from the standpoint of reducing cumulative mortality due to COVID-19, in the absence of mitigating measures.\n\n\nFunding\nNone.\n\n\n","id":"PMC7270508","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd.","authors":[{"firstname":"Jude","surname":"Bayham","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Eli P","surname":"Fenichel","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}],"References depth 2":[{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Economic cost and health care workforce effects of school closures in the US","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Estimating the impact of school closure on influenza transmission from Sentinel data","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Measured voluntary avoidance behaviour during the 2009 A/H1N1 epidemic","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The effects of school closures on influenza outbreaks and pandemics: systematic review of simulation studies","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The epidemiology of hand, foot and mouth disease in Asia: a systematic review and analysis","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Economic activity and the spread of viral diseases: evidence from high frequency data","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The economy-wide impact of pandemic influenza and the UK: a computable general equilibrium modelling experiment","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The mathematics of infectious diseases","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Babysitting &amp; advanced child care certification","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Adaptive human behavior in epidemiological models","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Behavioural change models for infectious disease transmission: a systematic review (2010-2015)","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Interactive COVID-19 childcare map","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Evaluating targeted interventions via meta-population models with multi-level mixing","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"School closures and influenza: systematic review of epidemiological studies","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"How will country-based mitigation measures influence the course of the COVID-19 epidemic?","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/S1473-3099(20)30119-5","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Open access epidemiological data from the COVID-19 outbreak","abstract":"","id":"PMC7158984","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Elsevier Ltd.","authors":[{"firstname":"Bo","surname":"Xu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Moritz U G","surname":"Kraemer","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Bo","surname":"Xu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Bernardo","surname":"Gutierrez","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Sumiko","surname":"Mekaru","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Kara","surname":"Sewalk","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Alyssa","surname":"Loskill","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Lin","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Emily","surname":"Cohn","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Sarah","surname":"Hill","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Alexander","surname":"Zarebski","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Sabrina","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Chieh-His","surname":"Wu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Erin","surname":"Hulland","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Julia","surname":"Morgan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Samuel","surname":"Scarpino","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"John","surname":"Brownstein","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Oliver","surname":"Pybus","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"David","surname":"Pigott","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Moritz","surname":"Kraemer","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Eichenbaum MS, Rebelo S, Trabandt M. The macroeconomics of epidemics. NBER Working Paper No. 26882 [preprint]. Cambridge: National Bureau of Economic Research; 2020 [cited 2020 Jun 2]. Available from: https://www.nber.org/papers/w26882.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Petherick A, Hale T, Phillips T, Webster S. Variation in government responses to COVID-19. Blavatnik School Working Paper [preprint]. Oxford: University of Oxford Blavatnik School of Government; 2020 [cited 2020 Jun 2]. Available from: https://www.bsg.ox.ac.uk/research/publications/variation-government-responses-covid-19.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"10.7326/M20-0504","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The Incubation Period of Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) From Publicly Reported Confirmed Cases: Estimation and Application","abstract":"Background:\nA novel human coronavirus, severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2), was identified in China in December 2019. There is limited support for many of its key epidemiologic features, including the incubation period for clinical disease (coronavirus disease 2019 [COVID-19]), which has important implications for surveillance and control activities.\n\n\nObjective:\nTo estimate the length of the incubation period of COVID-19 and describe its public health implications.\n\n\nDesign:\nPooled analysis of confirmed COVID-19 cases reported between 4 January 2020 and 24 February 2020.\nSetting:\nNews reports and press releases from 50 provinces, regions, and countries outside Wuhan, Hubei province, China.\n\n\nParticipants:\nPersons with confirmed SARS-CoV-2 infection outside Hubei province, China.\n\n\nMeasurements:\nPatient demographic characteristics and dates and times of possible exposure, symptom onset, fever onset, and hospitalization.\n\n\nResults:\nThere were 181 confirmed cases with identifiable exposure and symptom onset windows to estimate the incubation period of COVID-19. The median incubation period was estimated to be 5.1 days (95% CI, 4.5 to 5.8 days), and 97.5% of those who develop symptoms will do so within 11.5 days (CI, 8.2 to 15.6 days) of infection.\n\n These estimates imply that, under conservative assumptions, 101 out of every 10000 cases (99th percentile, 482) will develop symptoms after 14 days of active monitoring or quarantine.\n\n\nLimitation:\nPublicly reported cases may overrepresent severe cases, the incubation period for which may differ from that of mild cases.\n\n\nConclusion:\nThis work provides additional evidence for a median incubation period for COVID-19 of approximately 5 days, similar to SARS.\n\n Our results support current proposals for the length of quarantine or active monitoring of persons potentially exposed to SARS-CoV-2, although longer monitoring periods might be justified in extreme cases.\n\n\nPrimary Funding Source:\nU.\n\nS.\n\n Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, National Institute of General Medical Sciences, and Alexander von Humboldt Foundation.\n\n\n","id":"PMC7081172","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"American College of Physicians","authors":[{"firstname":"Stephen A.","surname":"Lauer","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Kyra H.","surname":"Grantz","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Qifang","surname":"Bi","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Forrest K.","surname":"Jones","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Qulu","surname":"Zheng","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hannah R.","surname":"Meredith","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Andrew S.","surname":"Azman","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Nicholas G.","surname":"Reich","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Justin","surname":"Lessler","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Incubation period of 2019 novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV) infections among travellers from Wuhan, China, 20-28 January 2020","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"World Health Organization (WHO). WHO Statement Regarding Cluster of Pneumonia Cases in Wuhan, China. Beijing: WHO; 9 Jan 2020. [Accessed 26 Jan 2020]. https://www.who.int/china/news/detail/09-01-2020-who-statement-regarding-cluster-of-pneumonia-cases-in-wuhan-china ","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1056/NEJMoa2001017","date":"1970-01-01","title":"A Novel Coronavirus from Patients with Pneumonia in China, 2019","abstract":"In December 2019, a cluster of patients with pneumonia of unknown cause was linked to a seafood wholesale market in Wuhan, China.\n A previously unknown betacoronavirus was discovered through the use of unbiased sequencing in samples from patients with pneumonia.\n Human airway epithelial cells were used to isolate a novel coronavirus, named 2019-nCoV, which formed a clade within the subgenus sarbecovirus, Orthocoronavirinae subfamily.\n Different from both MERS-CoV and SARS-CoV, 2019-nCoV is the seventh member of the family of coronaviruses that infect humans.\n Enhanced surveillance and further investigation are ongoing.\n (Funded by the National Key Research and Development Program of China and the National Major Project for Control and Prevention of Infectious Disease in China.\n)","id":"PMC7092803","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Massachusetts Medical Society","authors":[{"firstname":"Na","surname":"Zhu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Dingyu","surname":"Zhang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Wenling","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xingwang","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Bo","surname":"Yang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jingdong","surname":"Song","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xiang","surname":"Zhao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Baoying","surname":"Huang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Weifeng","surname":"Shi","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Roujian","surname":"Lu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Peihua","surname":"Niu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Faxian","surname":"Zhan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xuejun","surname":"Ma","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Dayan","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Wenbo","surname":"Xu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Guizhen","surname":"Wu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"George F.","surname":"Gao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Wenjie","surname":"Tan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Imai N, Dorigatti I, Cori A, Donnelly C, Riley S, Ferguson NM. Report 2: Estimating the potential total number of novel Coronavirus cases in Wuhan City, China. London; 2020. Available from: https://www.imperial.ac.uk/media/imperial-college/medicine/sph/ide/gida-fellowships/2019-nCoV-outbreak-report-22-01-2020.pdf ","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Nowcasting and forecasting the potential domestic and international spread of the 2019-nCoV outbreak originating in Wuhan, China: a modelling study.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.3390/jcm9020330","date":"2020-01-23","title":"The Extent of Transmission of Novel Coronavirus in Wuhan, China, 2020","abstract":"A cluster of pneumonia cases linked to a novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV) was reported by China in late December 2019. Reported case incidence has now reached the hundreds, but this is likely an underestimate.\n As of 24 January 2020, with reports of thirteen exportation events, we estimate the cumulative incidence in China at 5502 cases (95% confidence interval: 3027, 9057).\n The most plausible number of infections is in the order of thousands, rather than hundreds, and there is a strong indication that untraced exposures other than the one in the epidemiologically linked seafood market in Wuhan have occurred.\n","id":"PMC7073674","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"MDPI","authors":[{"firstname":"Hiroshi","surname":"Nishiura","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Sung-mok","surname":"Jung","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Sung-mok","surname":"Jung","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Natalie M.","surname":"Linton","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Natalie M.","surname":"Linton","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ryo","surname":"Kinoshita","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ryo","surname":"Kinoshita","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yichi","surname":"Yang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yichi","surname":"Yang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Katsuma","surname":"Hayashi","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Tetsuro","surname":"Kobayashi","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Baoyin","surname":"Yuan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Andrei R.","surname":"Akhmetzhanov","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Imai N, Cori A, Dorigatti I, Baguelin M, Donnelly CA, Riley S, et al. Report 3: Transmissibility of 2019-nCoV. London; 2020. Available from: https://www.imperial.ac.uk/media/imperial-college/medicine/sph/ide/gida-fellowships/Imperial-2019-nCoV-transmissibility.pdf ","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Preliminary estimation of the basic reproduction number of novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV) in China, from 2019 to 2020: A data-driven analysis in the early phase of the outbreak.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Online repository. Boston: Laboratory for the Modeling of Biological and Socio-technical Systems (MOBS). [Accessed 29 Jan 2020]. Available from: https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1jS24DjSPVWa4iuxuD4OAXrE3QeI8c9BC1hSlqr-NMiU/edit#gid=1449891965 ","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Stan Development Team. RStan: the R interface to Stan. R package version 2.18.2. 2018. Available from: https://cran.r-project.org/web/packages/rstan/vignettes/rstan.html ","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/S0140-6736(20)30154-9","date":"1970-01-01","title":"A familial cluster of pneumonia associated with the 2019 novel coronavirus indicating person-to-person transmission: a study of a family cluster","abstract":"Background\nAn ongoing outbreak of pneumonia associated with a novel coronavirus was reported in Wuhan city, Hubei province, China.\n\n Affected patients were geographically linked with a local wet market as a potential source.\n\n No data on person-to-person or nosocomial transmission have been published to date.\n\n\nMethods\nIn this study, we report the epidemiological, clinical, laboratory, radiological, and microbiological findings of five patients in a family cluster who presented with unexplained pneumonia after returning to Shenzhen, Guangdong province, China, after a visit to Wuhan, and an additional family member who did not travel to Wuhan.\n\n Phylogenetic analysis of genetic sequences from these patients were done.\n\n\nFindings\nFrom Jan 10, 2020, we enrolled a family of six patients who travelled to Wuhan from Shenzhen between Dec 29, 2019 and Jan 4, 2020. Of six family members who travelled to Wuhan, five were identified as infected with the novel coronavirus.\n\n Additionally, one family member, who did not travel to Wuhan, became infected with the virus after several days of contact with four of the family members.\n\n None of the family members had contacts with Wuhan markets or animals, although two had visited a Wuhan hospital.\n\n Five family members (aged 3666 years) presented with fever, upper or lower respiratory tract symptoms, or diarrhoea, or a combination of these 36 days after exposure.\n\n They presented to our hospital (The University of Hong Kong-Shenzhen Hospital, Shenzhen) 610 days after symptom onset.\n\n They and one asymptomatic child (aged 10 years) had radiological ground-glass lung opacities.\n\n Older patients (aged &gt;60 years) had more systemic symptoms, extensive radiological ground-glass lung changes, lymphopenia, thrombocytopenia, and increased C-reactive protein and lactate dehydrogenase levels.\n\n The nasopharyngeal or throat swabs of these six patients were negative for known respiratory microbes by point-of-care multiplex RT-PCR, but five patients (four adults and the child) were RT-PCR positive for genes encoding the internal RNA-dependent RNA polymerase and surface Spike protein of this novel coronavirus, which were confirmed by Sanger sequencing.\n\n Phylogenetic analysis of these five patients' RT-PCR amplicons and two full genomes by next-generation sequencing showed that this is a novel coronavirus, which is closest to the bat severe acute respiatory syndrome (SARS)-related coronaviruses found in Chinese horseshoe bats.\n\n\nInterpretation\nOur findings are consistent with person-to-person transmission of this novel coronavirus in hospital and family settings, and the reports of infected travellers in other geographical regions.\n\n\nFunding\nThe Shaw Foundation Hong Kong, Michael Seak-Kan Tong, Respiratory Viral Research Foundation Limited, Hui Ming, Hui Hoy and Chow Sin Lan Charity Fund Limited, Marina Man-Wai Lee, the Hong Kong Hainan Commercial Association South China Microbiology Research Fund, Sanming Project of Medicine (Shenzhen), and High Level-Hospital Program (Guangdong Health Commission).\n\n\n","id":"PMC7159286","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Elsevier Ltd.","authors":[{"firstname":"Jasper Fuk-Woo","surname":"Chan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Shuofeng","surname":"Yuan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Kin-Hang","surname":"Kok","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Kelvin Kai-Wang","surname":"To","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hin","surname":"Chu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jin","surname":"Yang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Fanfan","surname":"Xing","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jieling","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Cyril Chik-Yan","surname":"Yip","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Rosana Wing-Shan","surname":"Poon","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hoi-Wah","surname":"Tsoi","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Simon Kam-Fai","surname":"Lo","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Kwok-Hung","surname":"Chan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Vincent Kwok-Man","surname":"Poon","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Wan-Mui","surname":"Chan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jonathan Daniel","surname":"Ip","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jian-Piao","surname":"Cai","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Vincent Chi-Chung","surname":"Cheng","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Honglin","surname":"Chen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Christopher Kim-Ming","surname":"Hui","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Kwok-Yung","surname":"Yuen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC). Q &amp; A on novel coronavirus. Stockholm: ECDC; 2020. [Accessed 4 Feb 2020]. Available from: https://www.ecdc.europa.eu/en/novel-coronavirus-china/questions-answers ","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1056/NEJMoa2001316","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Early Transmission Dynamics in Wuhan, China, of Novel CoronavirusInfected Pneumonia","abstract":"Background\nThe initial cases of novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV)infected pneumonia (NCIP) occurred in Wuhan, Hubei Province, China, in December 2019 and January 2020. We analyzed data on the first 425 confirmed cases in Wuhan to determine the epidemiologic characteristics of NCIP.\n\n\nMethods\nWe collected information on demographic characteristics, exposure history, and illness timelines of laboratory-confirmed cases of NCIP that had been reported by January 22, 2020. We described characteristics of the cases and estimated the key epidemiologic time-delay distributions.\n\n In the early period of exponential growth, we estimated the epidemic doubling time and the basic reproductive number.\n\n\nResults\nAmong the first 425 patients with confirmed NCIP, the median age was 59 years and 56% were male.\n\n The majority of cases (55%) with onset before January 1, 2020, were linked to the Huanan Seafood Wholesale Market, as compared with 8.6% of the subsequent cases.\n\n The mean incubation period was 5.2 days (95% confidence interval [CI], 4.1 to 7.0), with the 95th percentile of the distribution at 12.5 days.\n\n In its early stages, the epidemic doubled in size every 7.4 days.\n\n With a mean serial interval of 7.5 days (95% CI, 5.3 to 19), the basic reproductive number was estimated to be 2.2 (95% CI, 1.4 to 3.9).\n\n\nConclusions\nOn the basis of this information, there is evidence that human-to-human transmission has occurred among close contacts since the middle of December 2019. Considerable efforts to reduce transmission will be required to control outbreaks if similar dynamics apply elsewhere.\n\n Measures to prevent or reduce transmission should be implemented in populations at risk.\n\n (Funded by the Ministry of Science and Technology of China and others.\n\n)\n","id":"PMC7121484","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Massachusetts Medical Society","authors":[{"firstname":"Qun","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xuhua","surname":"Guan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Peng","surname":"Wu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xiaoye","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Lei","surname":"Zhou","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yeqing","surname":"Tong","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ruiqi","surname":"Ren","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Kathy S.M.","surname":"Leung","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Eric H.Y.","surname":"Lau","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jessica Y.","surname":"Wong","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xuesen","surname":"Xing","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Nijuan","surname":"Xiang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yang","surname":"Wu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Chao","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Qi","surname":"Chen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Dan","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Tian","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jing","surname":"Zhao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Man","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Wenxiao","surname":"Tu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Chuding","surname":"Chen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Lianmei","surname":"Jin","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Rui","surname":"Yang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Qi","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Suhua","surname":"Zhou","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Rui","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hui","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yinbo","surname":"Luo","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yuan","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ge","surname":"Shao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Huan","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zhongfa","surname":"Tao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yang","surname":"Yang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zhiqiang","surname":"Deng","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Boxi","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zhitao","surname":"Ma","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yanping","surname":"Zhang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Guoqing","surname":"Shi","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Tommy T.Y.","surname":"Lam","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Joseph T.","surname":"Wu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"George F.","surname":"Gao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Benjamin J.","surname":"Cowling","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Bo","surname":"Yang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Bo","surname":"Yang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Gabriel M.","surname":"Leung","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zijian","surname":"Feng","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1101/2020.01.25.919787","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Transmission dynamics of 2019 novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV).","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/S0140-6736(03)13410-1","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Epidemiological determinants of spread of causal agent of severe acute respiratory syndrome in Hong Kong","abstract":"Background\nHealth authorities worldwide, especially in the Asia Pacific region, are seeking effective public-health interventions in the continuing epidemic of severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS).\n\n We assessed the epidemiology of SARS in Hong Kong.\n\n\nMethods\nWe included 1425 cases reported up to April 28, 2003. An integrated database was constructed from several sources containing information on epidemiological, demographic, and clinical variables.\n\n We estimated the key epidemiological distributions: infection to onset, onset to admission, admission to death, and admission to discharge.\n\n We measured associations between the estimated case fatality rate and patientsage and the time from onset to admission.\n\n\nFindings\nAfter the initial phase of exponential growth, the rate of confirmed cases fell to less than 20 per day by April 28. Public-health interventions included encouragement to report to hospital rapidly after the onset of clinical symptoms, contact tracing for confirmed and suspected cases, and quarantining, monitoring, and restricting the travel of contacts.\n\n The mean incubation period of the disease is estimated to be 6.4 days (95% Cl 5.27.7).\n\n The mean time from onset of clinical symptoms to admission to hospital varied between 3 and 5 days, with longer times earlier in the epidemic.\n\n The estimated case fatality rate was 13.2% (9.816.8) for patients younger than 60 years and 43.3% (35.252.4) for patients aged 60 years or older assuming a parametric ? distribution.\n\n A non-parametric method yielded estimates of 6.8% (4.09.6) and 55.0% (45.364.7), respectively.\n\n Case clusters have played an important part in the course of the epidemic.\n\n\nInterpretation\nPatientsage was strongly associated with outcome.\n\n The time between onset of symptoms and admission to hospital did not alter outcome, but shorter intervals will be important to the wider population by restricting the infectious period before patients are placed in quarantine.\n\n\n","id":"PMC7112380","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Elsevier Ltd.","authors":[{"firstname":"Christl A","surname":"Donnelly","email":"c.donnelly@imperial.ac.uk","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Azra C","surname":"Ghani","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Gabriel M","surname":"Leung","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Anthony J","surname":"Hedley","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Christophe","surname":"Fraser","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Steven","surname":"Riley","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Laith J","surname":"Abu-Raddad","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Lai-Ming","surname":"Ho","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Thuan-Quoc","surname":"Thach","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Patsy","surname":"Chau","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"King-Pan","surname":"Chan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Tai-Hing","surname":"Lam","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Lai-Yin","surname":"Tse","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Thomas","surname":"Tsang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Shao-Haei","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"James HB","surname":"Kong","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Edith MC","surname":"Lau","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Neil M","surname":"Ferguson","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Roy M","surname":"Anderson","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Erratum to Epidemiological determinants of spread of causal agent of severe acute respiratory syndrome in Hong Kong.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1097/01.ede.0000254660.07942.fb","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Alternative methods of estimating an incubation distribution: examples from severe acute respiratory syndrome.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1186/1471-2334-10-50","date":"2010-03-06","title":"A comparative epidemiologic analysis of SARS in Hong Kong, Beijing and Taiwan","abstract":"Background\nThe 2002-2003 Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS) outbreak infected 8,422 individuals leading to 916 deaths around the world.\n\n However, there have been few epidemiological studies of SARS comparing epidemiologic features across regions.\n\n The aim of this study is to identify similarities and differences in SARS epidemiology in three populations with similar host and viral genotype.\n\n\nMethods\nWe present a comparative epidemiologic analysis of SARS, based on an integrated dataset with 3,336 SARS patients from Hong Kong, Beijing and Taiwan, epidemiological and clinical characteristics such as incubation, onset-to-admission, onset-to-discharge and onset-to-death periods, case fatality ratios (CFRs) and presenting symptoms are described and compared between regions.\n\n We further explored the influence of demographic and clinical variables on the apparently large differences in CFRs between the three regions.\n\n\nResults\nAll three regions showed similar incubation periods and progressive shortening of the onset-to-admission interval through the epidemic.\n\n Adjusted for sex, health care worker status and nosocomial setting, older age was associated with a higher fatality, with adjusted odds ratio (AOR): 2.10 (95% confidence interval: 1.45, 3.04) for those aged 51-60; AOR: 4.57 (95% confidence interval: 3.32, 7.30) for those aged above 60 compared to those aged 41-50 years.\n\n Presence of pre-existing comorbid conditions was also associated with greater mortality (AOR: 1.74; 95% confidence interval: 1.36, 2.21).\n\n\nConclusion\nThe large discrepancy in crude fatality ratios across the three regions can only be partly explained by epidemiological and clinical heterogeneities.\n\n Our findings underline the importance of a common data collection platform, especially in an emerging epidemic, in order to identify and explain consistencies and differences in the eventual clinical and public health outcomes of infectious disease outbreaks, which is becoming increasingly important in our highly interconnected world.\n\n\n","id":"PMC2846944","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"BioMed Central","authors":[{"firstname":"Eric HY","surname":"Lau","email":"ehylau@hku.hk","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"C Agnes","surname":"Hsiung","email":"hsiung@nhri.org.tw","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Benjamin J","surname":"Cowling","email":"bcowling@hku.hk","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Chang-Hsun","surname":"Chen","email":"leonardo@cdc.gov.tw","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Lai-Ming","surname":"Ho","email":"lmho@hku.hk","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Thomas","surname":"Tsang","email":"thomas_tsang@dh.gov.hk","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Chiu-Wen","surname":"Chang","email":"ccwen@cdc.gov.tw","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Christl A","surname":"Donnelly","email":"c.donnelly@imperial.ac.uk","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Gabriel M","surname":"Leung","email":"gmleung@hku.hk","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1016/S1473-3099(09)70069-6","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Incubation periods of acute respiratory viral infections: a systematic review","abstract":"Knowledge of the incubation period is essential in the investigation and control of infectious disease, but statements of incubation period are often poorly referenced, inconsistent, or based on limited data.\n In a systematic review of the literature on nine respiratory viral infections of public-health importance, we identified 436 articles with statements of incubation period and 38 with data for pooled analysis.\n We fitted a log-normal distribution to pooled data and found the median incubation period to be 56 days (95% CI 4863) for adenovirus, 32 days (95% CI 2837) for human coronavirus, 40 days (95% CI 3644) for severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus, 14 days (95% CI 1315) for influenza A, 06 days (95% CI 0506) for influenza B, 125 days (95% CI 118133) for measles, 26 days (95% CI 2131) for parainfluenza, 44 days (95% CI 3949) for respiratory syncytial virus, and 19 days (95% CI 1424) for rhinovirus.\n When using the incubation period, it is important to consider its full distribution: the right tail for quarantine policy, the central regions for likely times and sources of infection, and the full distribution for models used in pandemic planning.\n Our estimates combine published data to give the detail necessary for these and other applications.\n","id":"PMC4327893","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Elsevier Ltd.","authors":[{"firstname":"Justin","surname":"Lessler","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Nicholas G","surname":"Reich","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ron","surname":"Brookmeyer","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Trish M","surname":"Perl","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Kenrad E","surname":"Nelson","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Derek AT","surname":"Cummings","email":"dcumming@jhsph.edu","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1056/NEJMoa1306742","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Hospital outbreak of Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/S1473-3099(13)70304-9","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus: quantification of the extent of the epidemic, surveillance biases, and transmissibility","abstract":"Background\nThe novel Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus (MERS-CoV) had, as of Aug 8, 2013, caused 111 virologically confirmed or probable human cases of infection worldwide.\n\n We analysed epidemiological and genetic data to assess the extent of human infection, the performance of case detection, and the transmission potential of MERS-CoV with and without control measures.\n\n\nMethods\nWe assembled a comprehensive database of all confirmed and probable cases from public sources and estimated the incubation period and generation time from case cluster data.\n\n Using data of numbers of visitors to the Middle East and their duration of stay, we estimated the number of symptomatic cases in the Middle East.\n\n We did independent analyses, looking at the growth in incident clusters, the growth in viral population, the reproduction number of cluster index cases, and cluster sizes to characterise the dynamical properties of the epidemic and the transmission scenario.\n\n\nFindings\nThe estimated number of symptomatic cases up to Aug 8, 2013, is 940 (95% CI 2902200), indicating that at least 62% of human symptomatic cases have not been detected.\n\n We find that the case-fatality ratio of primary cases detected via routine surveillance (74%; 95% CI 4991) is biased upwards because of detection bias; the case-fatality ratio of secondary cases was 20% (742).\n\n Detection of milder cases (or clinical management) seemed to have improved in recent months.\n\n Analysis of human clusters indicated that chains of transmission were not self-sustaining when infection control was implemented, but that R in the absence of controls was in the range 0813. Three independent data sources provide evidence that R cannot be much above 1, with an upper bound of 1215.\nInterpretation\nBy showing that a slowly growing epidemic is underway either in human beings or in an animal reservoir, quantification of uncertainty in transmissibility estimates, and provision of the first estimates of the scale of the epidemic and extent of case detection biases, we provide valuable information for more informed risk assessment.\n\n\nFunding\nMedical Research Council, Bill &amp; Melinda Gates Foundation, EU FP7, and National Institute of General Medical Sciences.\n\n\n","id":"PMC3895322","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Cauchemez et al. Open Access article distributed under the terms of CC BY. Published by Elsevier Ltd.","authors":[{"firstname":"Simon","surname":"Cauchemez","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Christophe","surname":"Fraser","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Maria D","surname":"Van Kerkhove","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Christl A","surname":"Donnelly","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Steven","surname":"Riley","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Andrew","surname":"Rambaut","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Vincent","surname":"Enouf","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Sylvie","surname":"van der Werf","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Neil M","surname":"Ferguson","email":"neil.ferguson@imperial.ac.uk","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1038/srep35839","date":"2016-10-05","title":"Comparison of incubation period distribution of human infections with MERS-CoV in South Korea and Saudi Arabia","abstract":"The incubation period is an important epidemiologic distribution, it is often incorporated in case definitions, used to determine appropriate quarantine periods, and is an input to mathematical modeling studies.\n Middle East Respiratory Syndrome coronavirus (MERS) is an emerging infectious disease in the Arabian Peninsula.\n There was a large outbreak of MERS in South Korea in 2015. We examined the incubation period distribution of MERS coronavirus infection for cases in South Korea and in Saudi Arabia.\n Using parametric and nonparametric methods, we estimated a mean incubation period of 6.9 days (95% credibility interval: 6.37.5) for cases in South Korea and 5.0 days (95% credibility interval: 4.06.6) among cases in Saudi Arabia.\n In a log-linear regression model, the mean incubation period was 1.42 times longer (95% credibility interval: 1.181.71) among cases in South Korea compared to Saudi Arabia.\n The variation that we identified in the incubation period distribution between locations could be associated with differences in ascertainment or reporting of exposure dates and illness onset dates, differences in the source or mode of infection, or environmental differences.\n","id":"PMC5075793","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Nature Publishing Group","authors":[{"firstname":"Victor","surname":"Virlogeux","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Vicky J.","surname":"Fang","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Minah","surname":"Park","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Joseph T.","surname":"Wu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Benjamin J.","surname":"Cowling","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]}]},{"doi":"10.1056/NEJMoa2002032","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Clinical Characteristics of Coronavirus Disease 2019 in China","abstract":"Background\nSince December 2019, when coronavirus disease 2019 (Covid-19) emerged in Wuhan city and rapidly spread throughout China, data have been needed on the clinical characteristics of the affected patients.\n\n\nMethods\nWe extracted data regarding 1099 patients with laboratory-confirmed Covid-19 from 552 hospitals in 30 provinces, autonomous regions, and municipalities in mainland China through January 29, 2020. The primary composite end point was admission to an intensive care unit (ICU), the use of mechanical ventilation, or death.\n\n\nResults\nThe median age of the patients was 47 years; 41.9% of the patients were female.\n\n The primary composite end point occurred in 67 patients (6.1%), including 5.0% who were admitted to the ICU, 2.3% who underwent invasive mechanical ventilation, and 1.4% who died.\n\n Only 1.9% of the patients had a history of direct contact with wildlife.\n\n Among nonresidents of Wuhan, 72.3% had contact with residents of Wuhan, including 31.3% who had visited the city.\n\n The most common symptoms were fever (43.8% on admission and 88.7% during hospitalization) and cough (67.8%).\n\n Diarrhea was uncommon (3.8%).\n\n The median incubation period was 4 days (interquartile range, 2 to 7).\n\n On admission, ground-glass opacity was the most common radiologic finding on chest computed tomography (CT) (56.4%).\n\n No radiographic or CT abnormality was found in 157 of 877 patients (17.9%) with nonsevere disease and in 5 of 173 patients (2.9%) with severe disease.\n\n Lymphocytopenia was present in 83.2% of the patients on admission.\n\n\nConclusions\nDuring the first 2 months of the current outbreak, Covid-19 spread rapidly throughout China and caused varying degrees of illness.\n\n Patients often presented without fever, and many did not have abnormal radiologic findings.\n\n (Funded by the National Health Commission of China and others.\n\n)\n","id":"PMC7092819","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Massachusetts Medical Society","authors":[{"firstname":"Wei-jie","surname":"Guan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zheng-yi","surname":"Ni","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zheng-yi","surname":"Ni","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yu","surname":"Hu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Wen-hua","surname":"Liang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Chun-quan","surname":"Ou","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jian-xing","surname":"He","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Lei","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hong","surname":"Shan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Chun-liang","surname":"Lei","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"David S.C.","surname":"Hui","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Bin","surname":"Du","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Lan-juan","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Guang","surname":"Zeng","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Kwok-Yung","surname":"Yuen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ru-chong","surname":"Chen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Chun-li","surname":"Tang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Tao","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ping-yan","surname":"Chen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jie","surname":"Xiang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Shi-yue","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jin-lin","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zi-jing","surname":"Liang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yi-xiang","surname":"Peng","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Li","surname":"Wei","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yong","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ya-hua","surname":"Hu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Peng","surname":"Peng","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jian-ming","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ji-yang","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zhong","surname":"Chen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Gang","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zhi-jian","surname":"Zheng","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Shao-qin","surname":"Qiu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jie","surname":"Luo","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Chang-jiang","surname":"Ye","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Shao-yong","surname":"Zhu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Nan-shan","surname":"Zhong","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}],"References depth 2":[{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Early transmission dynamics in Wuhan, China, of novel coronavirus-infected pneumonia.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Challenges in laboratory diagnosis of the novel coronavirus SARS-CoV-2.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Clinical features of patients infected with 2019 novel coronavirus in Wuhan, China.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"First case of 2019 novel Coronavirus in the United States.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Epidemiological and clinical characteristics of 99 cases of 2019 novel coronavirus pneumonia in Wuhan, China: a descriptive study.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"A novel coronavirus associated with severe acute respiratory syndrome.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"A preventive and control strategy for COVID-19 infection: an experience from a Third-Tier Chinese City.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"An emerging coronavirus causing pneumonia outbreak in Wuhan, China: calling for developing therapeutic and prophylactic strategies.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Measures for diagnosing and treating infections by a novel coronavirus responsible for a pneumonia outbreak originating in Wuhan, China.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Perspectives on therapeutic neutralizing antibodies against the Novel Coronavirus SARS-CoV-2.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"COVID-19, an emerging coronavirus infection: advances and prospects in designing and developing vaccines, immunotherapeutics, and therapeutics.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Transplantation of ACE2(-) mesenchymal stem cells improves the outcome of patients with COVID-19 pneumonia.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"On the use of corticosteroids for 2019-nCoV pneumonia.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Comprehensive analysis of drugs to treat SARSCoV2 infection: mechanistic insights into current COVID19 therapies (Review).","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The role of telemedicine during the COVID-19 epidemic in China-experience from Shandong province.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Human umbilical cord-derived mesenchymal stem cell therapy in patients with COVID-19: a phase 1 clinical trial.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Intravenous infusion of human umbilical cord Wharton's jelly-derived mesenchymal stem cells as a potential treatment for patients with COVID-19 pneumonia.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Flattening the COVID-19 curve with natural killer cell based immunotherapies.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"A familial cluster of pneumonia associated with the 2019 novel coronavirus indicating person-to-person transmission: a study of a family cluster.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Full-genome evolutionary analysis of the novel corona virus (2019-nCoV) rejects the hypothesis of emergence as a result of a recent recombination event.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Epidemiologic and clinical characteristics of novel coronavirus infections involving 13 patients outside Wuhan, China.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Spatio-temporal metabolokinetics and efficacy of human placenta-derived mesenchymal stem/stromal cells on mice with refractory Crohn's-like enterocutaneous fistula.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"High-efficient generation of VCAM-1(+) mesenchymal stem cells with multidimensional superiorities in signatures and efficacy on aplastic anaemia mice.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Systematic comparison of hUC-MSCs at various passages reveals the variations of signatures and therapeutic effect on acute graft-versus-host disease.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"JNKi- and DAC-programmed mesenchymal stem/stromal cells from hESCs facilitate hematopoiesis and alleviate hind limb ischemia.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Identification of a novel coronavirus in patients with severe acute respiratory syndrome.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Studies on viral pneumonia related to novel coronavirus SARS-CoV-2, SARS-CoV, and MERS-CoV: a literature review.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Three emerging coronaviruses in two decades.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The epidemic of 2019-novel-coronavirus (2019-nCoV) pneumonia and insights for emerging infectious diseases in the future.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Coronaviruses - drug discovery and therapeutic options.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The pathogenicity of SARS-CoV-2 in hACE2 transgenic mice.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Acute respiratory distress syndrome: the Berlin Definition.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Pediatric acute respiratory distress syndrome: definition, incidence, and epidemiology: proceedings from the Pediatric Acute Lung Injury Consensus Conference.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Eicosanoid storm in infection and inflammation.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Decoding the enigma of antiviral crisis: does one target molecule regulate all?","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]}]},{"doi":"10.1016/S0140-6736(20)30566-3","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Clinical course and risk factors for mortality of adult inpatients with COVID-19 in Wuhan, China: a retrospective cohort study","abstract":"Background\nSince December, 2019, Wuhan, China, has experienced an outbreak of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19), caused by the severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2).\n\n Epidemiological and clinical characteristics of patients with COVID-19 have been reported but risk factors for mortality and a detailed clinical course of illness, including viral shedding, have not been well described.\n\n\nMethods\nIn this retrospective, multicentre cohort study, we included all adult inpatients (?18 years old) with laboratory-confirmed COVID-19 from Jinyintan Hospital and Wuhan Pulmonary Hospital (Wuhan, China) who had been discharged or had died by Jan 31, 2020. Demographic, clinical, treatment, and laboratory data, including serial samples for viral RNA detection, were extracted from electronic medical records and compared between survivors and non-survivors.\n\n We used univariable and multivariable logistic regression methods to explore the risk factors associated with in-hospital death.\n\n\nFindings\n191 patients (135 from Jinyintan Hospital and 56 from Wuhan Pulmonary Hospital) were included in this study, of whom 137 were discharged and 54 died in hospital.\n\n 91 (48%) patients had a comorbidity, with hypertension being the most common (58 [30%] patients), followed by diabetes (36 [19%] patients) and coronary heart disease (15 [8%] patients).\n\n Multivariable regression showed increasing odds of in-hospital death associated with older age (odds ratio 110, 95% CI 103117, per year increase; p=00043), higher Sequential Organ Failure Assessment (SOFA) score (565, 2611223; p&lt;00001), and d-dimer greater than 1 ?g/mL (1842, 26412855; p=00033) on admission.\n\n Median duration of viral shedding was 200 days (IQR 170240) in survivors, but SARS-CoV-2 was detectable until death in non-survivors.\n\n The longest observed duration of viral shedding in survivors was 37 days.\n\n\nInterpretation\nThe potential risk factors of older age, high SOFA score, and d-dimer greater than 1 ?g/mL could help clinicians to identify patients with poor prognosis at an early stage.\n\n Prolonged viral shedding provides the rationale for a strategy of isolation of infected patients and optimal antiviral interventions in the future.\n\n\nFunding\nChinese Academy of Medical Sciences Innovation Fund for Medical Sciences; National Science Grant for Distinguished Young Scholars; National Key Research and Development Program of China; The Beijing Science and Technology Project; and Major Projects of National Science and Technology on New Drug Creation and Development.\n\n\n","id":"PMC7270627","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Elsevier Ltd.","authors":[{"firstname":"Fei","surname":"Zhou","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ting","surname":"Yu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ronghui","surname":"Du","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Guohui","surname":"Fan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ying","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zhibo","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jie","surname":"Xiang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yeming","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Bin","surname":"Song","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xiaoying","surname":"Gu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Lulu","surname":"Guan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yuan","surname":"Wei","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hui","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xudong","surname":"Wu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jiuyang","surname":"Xu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Shengjin","surname":"Tu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yi","surname":"Zhang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hua","surname":"Chen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Bin","surname":"Cao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}],"References depth 2":[{"doi":"10.1001/jama.2020.1097","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The novel coronavirus originating in Wuhan, China: challenges for global health governance","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1101/2020.02.07.937862","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Severe acute respiratory syndrome-related coronavirus: the species and its viruses:a statement of the Coronavirus Study Group","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Short term outcome and risk factors for adverse clinical outcomes in adults with severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS)","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1056/NEJMoa2001316","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Early Transmission Dynamics in Wuhan, China, of Novel CoronavirusInfected Pneumonia","abstract":"Background\nThe initial cases of novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV)infected pneumonia (NCIP) occurred in Wuhan, Hubei Province, China, in December 2019 and January 2020. We analyzed data on the first 425 confirmed cases in Wuhan to determine the epidemiologic characteristics of NCIP.\n\n\nMethods\nWe collected information on demographic characteristics, exposure history, and illness timelines of laboratory-confirmed cases of NCIP that had been reported by January 22, 2020. We described characteristics of the cases and estimated the key epidemiologic time-delay distributions.\n\n In the early period of exponential growth, we estimated the epidemic doubling time and the basic reproductive number.\n\n\nResults\nAmong the first 425 patients with confirmed NCIP, the median age was 59 years and 56% were male.\n\n The majority of cases (55%) with onset before January 1, 2020, were linked to the Huanan Seafood Wholesale Market, as compared with 8.6% of the subsequent cases.\n\n The mean incubation period was 5.2 days (95% confidence interval [CI], 4.1 to 7.0), with the 95th percentile of the distribution at 12.5 days.\n\n In its early stages, the epidemic doubled in size every 7.4 days.\n\n With a mean serial interval of 7.5 days (95% CI, 5.3 to 19), the basic reproductive number was estimated to be 2.2 (95% CI, 1.4 to 3.9).\n\n\nConclusions\nOn the basis of this information, there is evidence that human-to-human transmission has occurred among close contacts since the middle of December 2019. Considerable efforts to reduce transmission will be required to control outbreaks if similar dynamics apply elsewhere.\n\n Measures to prevent or reduce transmission should be implemented in populations at risk.\n\n (Funded by the Ministry of Science and Technology of China and others.\n\n)\n","id":"PMC7121484","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Massachusetts Medical Society","authors":[{"firstname":"Qun","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xuhua","surname":"Guan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Peng","surname":"Wu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xiaoye","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Lei","surname":"Zhou","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yeqing","surname":"Tong","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ruiqi","surname":"Ren","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Kathy S.M.","surname":"Leung","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Eric H.Y.","surname":"Lau","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jessica Y.","surname":"Wong","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xuesen","surname":"Xing","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Nijuan","surname":"Xiang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yang","surname":"Wu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Chao","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Qi","surname":"Chen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Dan","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Tian","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jing","surname":"Zhao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Man","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Wenxiao","surname":"Tu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Chuding","surname":"Chen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Lianmei","surname":"Jin","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Rui","surname":"Yang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Qi","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Suhua","surname":"Zhou","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Rui","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hui","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yinbo","surname":"Luo","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yuan","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ge","surname":"Shao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Huan","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zhongfa","surname":"Tao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yang","surname":"Yang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zhiqiang","surname":"Deng","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Boxi","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zhitao","surname":"Ma","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yanping","surname":"Zhang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Guoqing","surname":"Shi","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Tommy T.Y.","surname":"Lam","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Joseph T.","surname":"Wu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"George F.","surname":"Gao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Benjamin J.","surname":"Cowling","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Bo","surname":"Yang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Bo","surname":"Yang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Gabriel M.","surname":"Leung","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zijian","surname":"Feng","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Clinical features of patients infected with 2019 novel coronavirus in Wuhan, China","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1001/jama.2020.1585","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Clinical characteristics of 138 hospitalized patients with 2019 novel coronavirus-infected pneumonia in Wuhan, China","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Epidemiological and clinical characteristics of 99 cases of 2019 novel coronavirus pneumonia in Wuhan, China: a descriptive study","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Management of adults with hospital-acquired and ventilator-associated pneumonia: 2016 clinical practice guidelines by the Infectious Diseases Society of America and the American Thoracic Society","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"KDIGO clinical practice guidelines for acute kidney injury","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Acute respiratory distress syndrome: the Berlin Definition","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Chinese management guideline for COVID-19 (version 6.0)","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/S2213-2600(20)30079-5","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Clinical course and outcomes of critically ill patients with SARS-CoV-2 pneumonia in Wuhan, China: a single-centered, retrospective, observational study","abstract":"Background\nAn ongoing outbreak of pneumonia associated with the severe acute respiratory coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) started in December, 2019, in Wuhan, China.\n\n Information about critically ill patients with SARS-CoV-2 infection is scarce.\n\n We aimed to describe the clinical course and outcomes of critically ill patients with SARS-CoV-2 pneumonia.\n\n\nMethods\nIn this single-centered, retrospective, observational study, we enrolled 52 critically ill adult patients with SARS-CoV-2 pneumonia who were admitted to the intensive care unit (ICU) of Wuhan Jin Yin-tan hospital (Wuhan, China) between late December, 2019, and Jan 26, 2020. Demographic data, symptoms, laboratory values, comorbidities, treatments, and clinical outcomes were all collected.\n\n Data were compared between survivors and non-survivors.\n\n The primary outcome was 28-day mortality, as of Feb 9, 2020. Secondary outcomes included incidence of SARS-CoV-2-related acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) and the proportion of patients requiring mechanical ventilation.\n\n\nFindings\nOf 710 patients with SARS-CoV-2 pneumonia, 52 critically ill adult patients were included.\n\n The mean age of the 52 patients was 597 (SD 133) years, 35 (67%) were men, 21 (40%) had chronic illness, 51 (98%) had fever.\n\n 32 (615%) patients had died at 28 days, and the median duration from admission to the intensive care unit (ICU) to death was 7 (IQR 311) days for non-survivors.\n\n Compared with survivors, non-survivors were older (646 years [112] vs 519 years [129]), more likely to develop ARDS (26 [81%] patients vs 9 [45%] patients), and more likely to receive mechanical ventilation (30 [94%] patients vs 7 [35%] patients), either invasively or non-invasively.\n\n Most patients had organ function damage, including 35 (67%) with ARDS, 15 (29%) with acute kidney injury, 12 (23%) with cardiac injury, 15 (29%) with liver dysfunction, and one (2%) with pneumothorax.\n\n 37 (71%) patients required mechanical ventilation.\n\n Hospital-acquired infection occurred in seven (135%) patients.\n\n\nInterpretation\nThe mortality of critically ill patients with SARS-CoV-2 pneumonia is considerable.\n\n The survival time of the non-survivors is likely to be within 12 weeks after ICU admission.\n\n Older patients (&gt;65 years) with comorbidities and ARDS are at increased risk of death.\n\n The severity of SARS-CoV-2 pneumonia poses great strain on critical care resources in hospitals, especially if they are not adequately staffed or resourced.\n\n\nFunding\nNone.\n\n\n","id":"PMC7102538","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Elsevier Ltd.","authors":[{"firstname":"Xiaobo","surname":"Yang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yuan","surname":"Yu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jiqian","surname":"Xu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Huaqing","surname":"Shu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jia'an","surname":"Xia","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hong","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yongran","surname":"Wu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Lu","surname":"Zhang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zhui","surname":"Yu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Minghao","surname":"Fang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ting","surname":"Yu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yaxin","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Shangwen","surname":"Pan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xiaojing","surname":"Zou","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Shiying","surname":"Yuan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"You","surname":"Shang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Middle East respiratory syndrome","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Outcomes and prognostic factors in 267 patients with severe acute respiratory syndrome in Hong Kong","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Predictors of mortality in Middle East respiratory syndrome (MERS)","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Exacerbated innate host response to SARS-CoV in aged non-human primates","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The immunopathogenesis of sepsis in elderly patients","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The Third International Consensus Definitions for Sepsis and Septic Shock (Sepsis-3)","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Serial evaluation of the SOFA score to predict outcome in critically ill patients","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Disease severity and clinical outcomes of community-acquired pneumonia caused by non-influenza respiratory viruses in adults: a multicentre prospective registry study from the CAP-China Network","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Community-acquired pneumonia requiring admission to an intensive care unit: a descriptive study","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Acute pneumonia and the cardiovascular system","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Association between influenza vaccination and cardiovascular outcomes in high-risk patients: a meta-analysis","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Laboratory-confirmed respiratory infections as predictors of hospital admission for myocardial infarction and stroke: time-series analysis of English data for 2004-2015","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Prevalence and significance of coagulation abnormalities in community-acquired pneumonia","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"D-dimer is a significant prognostic factor in patients with suspected infection and sepsis","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Risk of myocardial infarction and stroke after acute infection or vaccination","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Cardiac complications in patients with community-acquired pneumonia: incidence, timing, risk factors, and association with short-term mortality","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Cardiovascular complications of acute respiratory infections: current research and future directions","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Regulation of ACE2 in cardiac myocytes and fibroblasts","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"ACE2 and vasoactive peptides: novel players in cardiovascular/renal remodeling and hypertension","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/S2213-2600(20)30076-X","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Pathological findings of COVID-19 associated with acute respiratory distress syndrome","abstract":"","id":"PMC7164771","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Elsevier Ltd.","authors":[{"firstname":"Zhe","surname":"Xu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Lei","surname":"Shi","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yijin","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jiyuan","surname":"Zhang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Lei","surname":"Huang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Chao","surname":"Zhang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Shuhong","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Peng","surname":"Zhao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hongxia","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Li","surname":"Zhu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yanhong","surname":"Tai","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Changqing","surname":"Bai","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Tingting","surname":"Gao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jinwen","surname":"Song","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Peng","surname":"Xia","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jinghui","surname":"Dong","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jingmin","surname":"Zhao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Fu-Sheng","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Persistent shedding of viable SARS-CoV in urine and stool of SARS patients during the convalescent phase","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Viral shedding and antibody response in 37 patients with Middle East Respiratory Syndrome coronavirus infection","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Viral load kinetics of MERS coronavirus infection","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Factors associated with prolonged viral shedding in patients with avian influenza A(H7N9) virus infection","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1056/NEJMc2001737","date":"1970-01-01","title":"SARS-CoV-2 Viral Load in Upper Respiratory Specimens of Infected Patients","abstract":"","id":"PMC7121626","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Massachusetts Medical Society","authors":[{"firstname":"Lirong","surname":"Zou","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Feng","surname":"Ruan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Feng","surname":"Ruan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Mingxing","surname":"Huang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Mingxing","surname":"Huang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Lijun","surname":"Liang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Lijun","surname":"Liang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Huitao","surname":"Huang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Huitao","surname":"Huang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zhongsi","surname":"Hong","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zhongsi","surname":"Hong","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jianxiang","surname":"Yu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jianxiang","surname":"Yu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Min","surname":"Kang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yingchao","surname":"Song","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jinyu","surname":"Xia","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jinyu","surname":"Xia","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Qianfang","surname":"Guo","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Qianfang","surname":"Guo","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Tie","surname":"Song","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jianfeng","surname":"He","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hui-Ling","surname":"Yen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hui-Ling","surname":"Yen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Malik","surname":"Peiris","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jie","surname":"Wu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jie","surname":"Wu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]}]},{"doi":"10.1016/S1473-3099(20)30243-7","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Estimates of the severity of coronavirus disease 2019: a model-based analysis","abstract":"Background\nIn the face of rapidly changing data, a range of case fatality ratio estimates for coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) have been produced that differ substantially in magnitude.\n\n We aimed to provide robust estimates, accounting for censoring and ascertainment biases.\n\n\nMethods\nWe collected individual-case data for patients who died from COVID-19 in Hubei, mainland China (reported by national and provincial health commissions to Feb 8, 2020), and for cases outside of mainland China (from government or ministry of health websites and media reports for 37 countries, as well as Hong Kong and Macau, until Feb 25, 2020).\n\n These individual-case data were used to estimate the time between onset of symptoms and outcome (death or discharge from hospital).\n\n We next obtained age-stratified estimates of the case fatality ratio by relating the aggregate distribution of cases to the observed cumulative deaths in China, assuming a constant attack rate by age and adjusting for demography and age-based and location-based under-ascertainment.\n\n We also estimated the case fatality ratio from individual line-list data on 1334 cases identified outside of mainland China.\n\n Using data on the prevalence of PCR-confirmed cases in international residents repatriated from China, we obtained age-stratified estimates of the infection fatality ratio.\n\n Furthermore, data on age-stratified severity in a subset of 3665 cases from China were used to estimate the proportion of infected individuals who are likely to require hospitalisation.\n\n\nFindings\nUsing data on 24 deaths that occurred in mainland China and 165 recoveries outside of China, we estimated the mean duration from onset of symptoms to death to be 178 days (95% credible interval [CrI] 169192) and to hospital discharge to be 247 days (229281).\n\n In all laboratory confirmed and clinically diagnosed cases from mainland China (n=70?117), we estimated a crude case fatality ratio (adjusted for censoring) of 367% (95% CrI 356380).\n\n However, after further adjusting for demography and under-ascertainment, we obtained a best estimate of the case fatality ratio in China of 138% (123153), with substantially higher ratios in older age groups (032% [027038] in those aged &lt;60 years vs 64% [5772] in those aged ?60 years), up to 134% (112159) in those aged 80 years or older.\n\n Estimates of case fatality ratio from international cases stratified by age were consistent with those from China (parametric estimate 14% [0435] in those aged &lt;60 years [n=360] and 45% [18111] in those aged ?60 years [n=151]).\n\n Our estimated overall infection fatality ratio for China was 066% (039133), with an increasing profile with age.\n\n Similarly, estimates of the proportion of infected individuals likely to be hospitalised increased with age up to a maximum of 184% (110376) in those aged 80 years or older.\n\n\nInterpretation\nThese early estimates give an indication of the fatality ratio across the spectrum of COVID-19 disease and show a strong age gradient in risk of death.\n\n\nFunding\nUK Medical Research Council.\n\n\n","id":"PMC7158570","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Elsevier Science ;, The Lancet Pub. Group","authors":[{"firstname":"Robert","surname":"Verity","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Lucy C","surname":"Okell","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ilaria","surname":"Dorigatti","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Peter","surname":"Winskill","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Charles","surname":"Whittaker","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Natsuko","surname":"Imai","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Gina","surname":"Cuomo-Dannenburg","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hayley","surname":"Thompson","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Patrick G T","surname":"Walker","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Han","surname":"Fu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Amy","surname":"Dighe","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jamie T","surname":"Griffin","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Marc","surname":"Baguelin","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Sangeeta","surname":"Bhatia","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Adhiratha","surname":"Boonyasiri","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Anne","surname":"Cori","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zulma","surname":"Cucunub","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Rich","surname":"FitzJohn","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Katy","surname":"Gaythorpe","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Will","surname":"Green","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Arran","surname":"Hamlet","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Wes","surname":"Hinsley","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Daniel","surname":"Laydon","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Gemma","surname":"Nedjati-Gilani","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Steven","surname":"Riley","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Sabine","surname":"van Elsland","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Erik","surname":"Volz","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Haowei","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yuanrong","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xiaoyue","surname":"Xi","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Christl A","surname":"Donnelly","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Azra C","surname":"Ghani","email":"a.ghani@imperial.ac.uk","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Neil M","surname":"Ferguson","email":"neil.ferguson@imperial.ac.uk","contributions":"0"}],"References depth 2":[{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) situation report:43","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"A familial cluster of pneumonia associated with the 2019 novel coronavirus indicating person-to-person transmission: a study of a family cluster","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Epidemiological and clinical characteristics of 99 cases of 2019 novel coronavirus pneumonia in Wuhan, China: a descriptive study","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1056/NEJMoa2002032","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Clinical Characteristics of Coronavirus Disease 2019 in China","abstract":"Background\nSince December 2019, when coronavirus disease 2019 (Covid-19) emerged in Wuhan city and rapidly spread throughout China, data have been needed on the clinical characteristics of the affected patients.\n\n\nMethods\nWe extracted data regarding 1099 patients with laboratory-confirmed Covid-19 from 552 hospitals in 30 provinces, autonomous regions, and municipalities in mainland China through January 29, 2020. The primary composite end point was admission to an intensive care unit (ICU), the use of mechanical ventilation, or death.\n\n\nResults\nThe median age of the patients was 47 years; 41.9% of the patients were female.\n\n The primary composite end point occurred in 67 patients (6.1%), including 5.0% who were admitted to the ICU, 2.3% who underwent invasive mechanical ventilation, and 1.4% who died.\n\n Only 1.9% of the patients had a history of direct contact with wildlife.\n\n Among nonresidents of Wuhan, 72.3% had contact with residents of Wuhan, including 31.3% who had visited the city.\n\n The most common symptoms were fever (43.8% on admission and 88.7% during hospitalization) and cough (67.8%).\n\n Diarrhea was uncommon (3.8%).\n\n The median incubation period was 4 days (interquartile range, 2 to 7).\n\n On admission, ground-glass opacity was the most common radiologic finding on chest computed tomography (CT) (56.4%).\n\n No radiographic or CT abnormality was found in 157 of 877 patients (17.9%) with nonsevere disease and in 5 of 173 patients (2.9%) with severe disease.\n\n Lymphocytopenia was present in 83.2% of the patients on admission.\n\n\nConclusions\nDuring the first 2 months of the current outbreak, Covid-19 spread rapidly throughout China and caused varying degrees of illness.\n\n Patients often presented without fever, and many did not have abnormal radiologic findings.\n\n (Funded by the National Health Commission of China and others.\n\n)\n","id":"PMC7092819","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Massachusetts Medical Society","authors":[{"firstname":"Wei-jie","surname":"Guan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zheng-yi","surname":"Ni","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zheng-yi","surname":"Ni","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yu","surname":"Hu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Wen-hua","surname":"Liang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Chun-quan","surname":"Ou","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jian-xing","surname":"He","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Lei","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hong","surname":"Shan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Chun-liang","surname":"Lei","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"David S.C.","surname":"Hui","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Bin","surname":"Du","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Lan-juan","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Guang","surname":"Zeng","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Kwok-Yung","surname":"Yuen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ru-chong","surname":"Chen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Chun-li","surname":"Tang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Tao","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ping-yan","surname":"Chen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jie","surname":"Xiang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Shi-yue","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jin-lin","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zi-jing","surname":"Liang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yi-xiang","surname":"Peng","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Li","surname":"Wei","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yong","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ya-hua","surname":"Hu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Peng","surname":"Peng","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jian-ming","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ji-yang","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zhong","surname":"Chen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Gang","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zhi-jian","surname":"Zheng","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Shao-qin","surname":"Qiu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jie","surname":"Luo","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Chang-jiang","surname":"Ye","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Shao-yong","surname":"Zhu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Nan-shan","surname":"Zhong","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Clinical features of patients infected with 2019 novel coronavirus in Wuhan, China","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1056/NEJMoa2001316","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Early Transmission Dynamics in Wuhan, China, of Novel CoronavirusInfected Pneumonia","abstract":"Background\nThe initial cases of novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV)infected pneumonia (NCIP) occurred in Wuhan, Hubei Province, China, in December 2019 and January 2020. We analyzed data on the first 425 confirmed cases in Wuhan to determine the epidemiologic characteristics of NCIP.\n\n\nMethods\nWe collected information on demographic characteristics, exposure history, and illness timelines of laboratory-confirmed cases of NCIP that had been reported by January 22, 2020. We described characteristics of the cases and estimated the key epidemiologic time-delay distributions.\n\n In the early period of exponential growth, we estimated the epidemic doubling time and the basic reproductive number.\n\n\nResults\nAmong the first 425 patients with confirmed NCIP, the median age was 59 years and 56% were male.\n\n The majority of cases (55%) with onset before January 1, 2020, were linked to the Huanan Seafood Wholesale Market, as compared with 8.6% of the subsequent cases.\n\n The mean incubation period was 5.2 days (95% confidence interval [CI], 4.1 to 7.0), with the 95th percentile of the distribution at 12.5 days.\n\n In its early stages, the epidemic doubled in size every 7.4 days.\n\n With a mean serial interval of 7.5 days (95% CI, 5.3 to 19), the basic reproductive number was estimated to be 2.2 (95% CI, 1.4 to 3.9).\n\n\nConclusions\nOn the basis of this information, there is evidence that human-to-human transmission has occurred among close contacts since the middle of December 2019. Considerable efforts to reduce transmission will be required to control outbreaks if similar dynamics apply elsewhere.\n\n Measures to prevent or reduce transmission should be implemented in populations at risk.\n\n (Funded by the Ministry of Science and Technology of China and others.\n\n)\n","id":"PMC7121484","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Massachusetts Medical Society","authors":[{"firstname":"Qun","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xuhua","surname":"Guan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Peng","surname":"Wu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xiaoye","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Lei","surname":"Zhou","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yeqing","surname":"Tong","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ruiqi","surname":"Ren","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Kathy S.M.","surname":"Leung","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Eric H.Y.","surname":"Lau","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jessica Y.","surname":"Wong","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xuesen","surname":"Xing","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Nijuan","surname":"Xiang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yang","surname":"Wu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Chao","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Qi","surname":"Chen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Dan","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Tian","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jing","surname":"Zhao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Man","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Wenxiao","surname":"Tu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Chuding","surname":"Chen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Lianmei","surname":"Jin","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Rui","surname":"Yang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Qi","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Suhua","surname":"Zhou","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Rui","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hui","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yinbo","surname":"Luo","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yuan","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ge","surname":"Shao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Huan","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zhongfa","surname":"Tao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yang","surname":"Yang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zhiqiang","surname":"Deng","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Boxi","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zhitao","surname":"Ma","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yanping","surname":"Zhang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Guoqing","surname":"Shi","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Tommy T.Y.","surname":"Lam","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Joseph T.","surname":"Wu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"George F.","surname":"Gao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Benjamin J.","surname":"Cowling","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Bo","surname":"Yang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Bo","surname":"Yang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Gabriel M.","surname":"Leung","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zijian","surname":"Feng","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The epidemiological characteristics of an outbreak of 2019 novel coronavirus diseases (COVID-19) in China","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Report of the WHO-China Joint Mission on coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19)","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Assessing the severity of the novel influenza A/H1N1 pandemic","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Potential biases in estimating absolute and relative case-fatality risks during outbreaks","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Methods for estimating the case fatality ratio for a novel, emerging infectious disease","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Epidemiological determinants of spread of causal agent of severe acute respiratory syndrome in Hong Kong","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Real-time estimation of the risk of death from novel coronavirus (COVID-19) infection: inference using exported cases","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1101/2020.02.12.20022434","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Early epidemiological assessment of the transmission potential and virulence of 2019 novel coronavirus in Wuhan City: China, January-February, 2020","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"2019-nCoV: preliminary estimates of the confirmed-case-fatality-ratio and infection-fatality-ratio, and initial pandemic risk assessment","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Real-time tentative assessment of the epidemiological characteristics of novel coronavirus infections in Wuhan, China, as at 22 January 2020","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Clinical findings in a group of patients infected with the 2019 novel coronavirus (SARS-Cov-2) outside of Wuhan, China: retrospective case series","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1101/2020.02.10.20021675","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Epidemiological and clinical features of the 2019 novel coronavirus outbreak in China","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"China statistical yearbook","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"drjacoby","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"CASEFAT: Stata module for estimating the case fatality ratio of a new infectious disease. Boston College of Economics","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/S0140-6736(20)30566-3","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Clinical course and risk factors for mortality of adult inpatients with COVID-19 in Wuhan, China: a retrospective cohort study","abstract":"Background\nSince December, 2019, Wuhan, China, has experienced an outbreak of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19), caused by the severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2).\n\n Epidemiological and clinical characteristics of patients with COVID-19 have been reported but risk factors for mortality and a detailed clinical course of illness, including viral shedding, have not been well described.\n\n\nMethods\nIn this retrospective, multicentre cohort study, we included all adult inpatients (?18 years old) with laboratory-confirmed COVID-19 from Jinyintan Hospital and Wuhan Pulmonary Hospital (Wuhan, China) who had been discharged or had died by Jan 31, 2020. Demographic, clinical, treatment, and laboratory data, including serial samples for viral RNA detection, were extracted from electronic medical records and compared between survivors and non-survivors.\n\n We used univariable and multivariable logistic regression methods to explore the risk factors associated with in-hospital death.\n\n\nFindings\n191 patients (135 from Jinyintan Hospital and 56 from Wuhan Pulmonary Hospital) were included in this study, of whom 137 were discharged and 54 died in hospital.\n\n 91 (48%) patients had a comorbidity, with hypertension being the most common (58 [30%] patients), followed by diabetes (36 [19%] patients) and coronary heart disease (15 [8%] patients).\n\n Multivariable regression showed increasing odds of in-hospital death associated with older age (odds ratio 110, 95% CI 103117, per year increase; p=00043), higher Sequential Organ Failure Assessment (SOFA) score (565, 2611223; p&lt;00001), and d-dimer greater than 1 ?g/mL (1842, 26412855; p=00033) on admission.\n\n Median duration of viral shedding was 200 days (IQR 170240) in survivors, but SARS-CoV-2 was detectable until death in non-survivors.\n\n The longest observed duration of viral shedding in survivors was 37 days.\n\n\nInterpretation\nThe potential risk factors of older age, high SOFA score, and d-dimer greater than 1 ?g/mL could help clinicians to identify patients with poor prognosis at an early stage.\n\n Prolonged viral shedding provides the rationale for a strategy of isolation of infected patients and optimal antiviral interventions in the future.\n\n\nFunding\nChinese Academy of Medical Sciences Innovation Fund for Medical Sciences; National Science Grant for Distinguished Young Scholars; National Key Research and Development Program of China; The Beijing Science and Technology Project; and Major Projects of National Science and Technology on New Drug Creation and Development.\n\n\n","id":"PMC7270627","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Elsevier Ltd.","authors":[{"firstname":"Fei","surname":"Zhou","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ting","surname":"Yu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ronghui","surname":"Du","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Guohui","surname":"Fan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ying","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zhibo","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jie","surname":"Xiang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yeming","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Bin","surname":"Song","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xiaoying","surname":"Gu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Lulu","surname":"Guan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yuan","surname":"Wei","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hui","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xudong","surname":"Wu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jiuyang","surname":"Xu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Shengjin","surname":"Tu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yi","surname":"Zhang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hua","surname":"Chen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Bin","surname":"Cao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"A comparative epidemiologic analysis of SARS in Hong Kong, Beijing and Taiwan","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Estimating the severity and subclinical burden of middle east respiratory syndrome coronavirus infection in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Epidemiological characteristics of 2009 (H1N1) pandemic influenza based on paired sera from a longitudinal community cohort study","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Relative incidence and individual-level severity of seasonal influenza A H3N2 compared with 2009 pandemic H1N1","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1101/2020.03.03.20028423","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Epidemiology and transmission of COVID-19 in Shenzhen China: analysis of 391 cases and 1,286 of their close contacts","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]}]},{"doi":"10.1038/s41591-020-0822-7","date":"2020-03-09","title":"Estimating clinical severity of COVID-19 from the transmission dynamics in Wuhan, China","abstract":"id='Par2'>As of 29 February 2020 there were 79,394 confirmed cases and 2,838 deaths from COVID-19 in mainland China.\n Of these, 48,557 cases and 2,169 deaths occurred in the epicenter, Wuhan.\n A key public health priority during the emergence of a novel pathogen is estimating clinical severity, which requires properly adjusting for the case ascertainment rate and the delay between symptoms onset and death.\n Using public and published information, we estimate that the overall symptomatic case fatality risk (the probability of dying after developing symptoms) of COVID-19 in Wuhan was 1.4% (0.92.1%), which is substantially lower than both the corresponding crude or nave confirmed case fatality risk (2,169/48,557?=?4.5%) and the approximator1 of deaths/deaths?+?recoveries (2,169/2,169?+?17,572?=?11%) as of 29 February 2020. Compared to those aged 3059?years, those aged below 30 and above 59 years were 0.6 (0.31.1) and 5.1 (4.26.1) times more likely to die after developing symptoms.\n The risk of symptomatic infection increased with age (for example, at ~4% per year among adults aged 3060 years).\n","id":"PMC7094929","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Nature Publishing Group US","authors":[{"firstname":"Joseph T.","surname":"Wu","email":"joewu@hku.hk","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Kathy","surname":"Leung","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Kathy","surname":"Leung","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Mary","surname":"Bushman","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Nishant","surname":"Kishore","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Rene","surname":"Niehus","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Pablo M.","surname":"de Salazar","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Benjamin J.","surname":"Cowling","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Marc","surname":"Lipsitch","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Marc","surname":"Lipsitch","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Gabriel M.","surname":"Leung","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"10.1101/2020.04.03.20052373","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Social distancing to slow the U.S. COVID-19 epidemic: an interrupted time-series analysis","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/S1473-3099(19)30674-7","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Preparedness for emerging epidemic threats: a <italic>Lancet Infectious Diseases</italic> Commission","abstract":"","id":"PMC7158988","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Elsevier Ltd.","authors":[{"firstname":"Vernon J","surname":"Lee","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ximena","surname":"Aguilera","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"David","surname":"Heymann","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Annelies","surname":"Wilder-Smith","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Vernon J.","surname":"Lee","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ximena","surname":"Aguilera","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"David L.","surname":"Heymann","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Annelies","surname":"Wilder-Smith","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Daniel G.","surname":"Bausch","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Sylvie","surname":"Briand","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Christianne","surname":"Bruschke","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Eduardo H.","surname":"Carmo","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Sean","surname":"Cleghorn","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Lalit","surname":"Dandona","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Christl","surname":"Donnelly","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ibrahima Soc","surname":"Fall","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jane","surname":"Halton","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Richard","surname":"Hatchett","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Felicia","surname":"Hong","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Peter","surname":"Horby","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Chikwe","surname":"Ihekweazu","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Michael","surname":"Jacobs","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Kamran","surname":"Khan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yijun","surname":"Lin","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Gabriel","surname":"Leung","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Constance","surname":"Low","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Bethan F.","surname":"McDonald","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ziad A.","surname":"Memish","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ryan","surname":"Morhard","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Deborah HL","surname":"Ng","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"John","surname":"Nkengasong","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Junxiong","surname":"Pang","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Stephen C.","surname":"Redd","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Karen","surname":"Tan","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Wen Qing","surname":"Yeo","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Mathematical models of infectious disease transmission","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Tuskegee and the health of black men","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1186/1471-2458-9-488","date":"2009-12-24","title":"Quantifying the impact of community quarantine on SARS transmission in Ontario: estimation of secondary case count difference and number needed to quarantine","abstract":"Background\nCommunity quarantine is controversial, and the decision to use and prepare for it should be informed by specific quantitative evidence of benefit.\n\n Case-study reports on 2002-2004 SARS outbreaks have discussed the role of quarantine in the community in transmission.\n\n However, this literature has not yielded quantitative estimates of the reduction in secondary cases attributable to quarantine as would be seen in other areas of health policy and cost-effectiveness analysis.\n\n\nMethods\nUsing data from the 2003 Ontario, Canada, SARS outbreak, two novel expressions for the impact of quarantine are presented.\n\n Secondary Case Count Difference (SCCD) reflects reduction in the average number of transmissions arising from a SARS case in quarantine, relative to not in quarantine, at onset of symptoms.\n\n SCCD was estimated using Poisson and negative binomial regression models (with identity link function) comparing the number of secondary cases to each index case for quarantine relative to non-quarantined index cases.\n\n The inverse of this statistic is proposed as the number needed to quarantine (NNQ) to prevent one additional secondary transmission.\n\n\nResults\nOur estimated SCCD was 0.133 fewer secondary cases per quarantined versus non-quarantined index case; and a NNQ of 7.5 exposed individuals to be placed in community quarantine to prevent one additional case of transmission in the community.\n\n This analysis suggests quarantine can be an effective preventive measure, although these estimates lack statistical precision.\n\n\nConclusions\nRelative to other health policy areas, literature on quarantine tends to lack in quantitative expressions of effectiveness, or agreement on how best to report differences in outcomes attributable to control measure.\n\n We hope to further this discussion through presentation of means to calculate and express the impact of population control measures.\n\n The study of quarantine effectiveness presents several methodological and statistical challenges.\n\n Further research and discussion are needed to understand the costs and benefits of enacting quarantine, and this includes a discussion of how quantitative benefit should be communicated to decision-makers and the public, and evaluated.\n\n\n","id":"PMC2808319","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"BioMed Central","authors":[{"firstname":"Susan J","surname":"Bondy","email":"sue.bondy@utoronto.ca","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Margaret L","surname":"Russell","email":"mlrussel@ucalgary.ca","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Julie ML","surname":"Laflche","email":"julie_lafleche@phac-aspc.gc.ca","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Elizabeth","surname":"Rea","email":"e.rea@utoronto.ca","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1016/j.socscimed.2021.113833","date":"1970-01-01","title":"A call for epidemic modeling to examine historical and structural drivers of racial disparities in infectious disease","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The strange disappearance of history from racial health disparities research","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/S0140-6736(09)60951-X","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The health and health system of South Africa: historical roots of current public health challenges","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"HIV treatment as prevention: systematic comparison of mathematical models of the potential impact of antiretroviral therapy on HIV incidence in South Africa","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1056/NEJMp2019445","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Covid's color line : infectious disease, inequity, and racial justice","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Mathematical models in the evaluation of health programmes","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Projecting the impact of equity-based pre-exposure prophylaxis implementation on racial disparities in HIV incidence among men who have sex with men","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Effect of racial inequities in pre-exposure prophylaxis use on racial disparities in HIV incidence among men who have sex with men: a modeling study","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Sources of racial disparities in HIV prevalence in men who have sex with men in Atlanta, GA, USA: a modelling study","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Barrier to pneumococcal and influenza vaccinations in Black elderly communities: mistrust","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The use and misuse of mathematical modeling for infectious disease Policymaking: lessons for the COVID-19 pandemic","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"January 26 CSH gov D last updated","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1097/QAI.0000000000001620","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Sexual networks of racially diverse young MSM differ in racial homophily but not concurrency","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/j.vaccine.2021.08.009","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Disparities in infant mortality from all-infectious, vaccine-preventable, and non-vaccine preventable diseases in relation to parental education","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.7326/M20-2223","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Historical Insights on Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19), the 1918 Influenza Pandemic, and Racial Disparities: Illuminating a Path Forward","abstract":"The coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic is exacting a disproportionate toll on ethnic minority communities and magnifying existing disparities in health care access and treatment.\n To understand this crisis, physicians and public health researchers have searched history for insights, especially from a great outbreak approximately a century ago: the 1918 influenza pandemic.\n However, of the accounts examining the 1918 influenza pandemic and COVID-19, only a notable few discuss race.\n Yet, a rich, broader scholarship on race and epidemic disease as a sampling device for social analysis exists.\n This commentary examines the historical arc of the 1918 influenza pandemic, focusing on black Americans and showing the complex and sometimes surprising ways it operated, triggering particular responses both within a minority community and in wider racial, sociopolitical, and public health structures.\n This analysis reveals that critical structural\ninequities and health care gaps have historically contributed to and continue to compound disparate health outcomes among communities of color.\n Shifting from this context to the present, this article frames a discussion of racial health disparities through a resilience approach rather than a deficit approach and offers a blueprint for approaching the COVID-19 crisis and its afterlives through the lens of health equity.\n","id":"PMC7298913","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"American College of Physicians","authors":[{"firstname":"Lakshmi","surname":"Krishnan","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"S. Michelle","surname":"Ogunwole","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Lisa A.","surname":"Cooper","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Social conditions as fundamental causes of disease","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The legacy of colonial medicine in Central Africa","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.7554/eLife.66601","date":"2021-05-17","title":"Modeling the impact of racial and ethnic disparities on COVID-19 epidemic dynamics","abstract":"Background:\nThe impact of variable infection risk by race and ethnicity on the dynamics of SARS-CoV-2 spread is largely unknown.\n\n\nMethods:\nHere, we fit structured compartmental models to seroprevalence data from New York State and analyze how herd immunity thresholds (HITs), final sizes, and epidemic risk change across groups.\n\n\nResults:\nA simple model where interactions occur proportionally to contact rates reduced the HIT, but more realistic models of preferential mixing within groups increased the threshold toward the value observed in homogeneous populations.\n\n Across all models, the burden of infection fell disproportionately on minority populations: in a model fit to Long Island serosurvey and census data, 81% of Hispanics or Latinos were infected when the HIT was reached compared to 34% of non-Hispanic whites.\n\n\nConclusions:\nOur findings, which are meant to be illustrative and not best estimates, demonstrate how racial and ethnic disparities can impact epidemic trajectories and result in unequal distributions of SARS-CoV-2 infection.\n\n\nFunding:\nK.\n\nC.\n\nM.\n\n was supported by National Science Foundation GRFP grant DGE1745303. Y.\n\nH.\n\nG.\n\n and M.\n\nL.\n\n were funded by the Morris-Singer Foundation.\n\n M.\n\nL.\n\n was supported by SeroNet cooperative agreement U01 CA261277.\n","id":"PMC8221808","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"eLife Sciences Publications, Ltd","authors":[{"firstname":"Kevin C","surname":"Ma","email":"kevinchenma@g.harvard.edu","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Tigist F","surname":"Menkir","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Tigist F","surname":"Menkir","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Stephen","surname":"Kissler","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Stephen","surname":"Kissler","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yonatan H","surname":"Grad","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Yonatan H","surname":"Grad","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Marc","surname":"Lipsitch","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Marc","surname":"Lipsitch","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Joshua T","surname":"Schiffer","email":"NULL","contributions":"7"},{"firstname":"Joshua T","surname":"Schiffer","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Joshua T","surname":"Schiffer","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Miles P","surname":"Davenport","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Joshua T","surname":"Schiffer","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Joshua T","surname":"Schiffer","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Joshua T","surname":"Schiffer","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Joshua T","surname":"Schiffer","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jon","surname":"Zelner","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Mia","surname":"Moore","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.1371/journal.pone.0098272","date":"2014-04-28","title":"Development, Calibration and Performance of an HIV Transmission Model Incorporating Natural History and Behavioral Patterns: Application in South Africa","abstract":"Understanding HIV transmission dynamics is critical to estimating the potential population-wide impact of HIV prevention and treatment interventions.\n We developed an individual-based simulation model of the heterosexual HIV epidemic in South Africa and linked it to the previously published Cost-Effectiveness of Preventing AIDS Complications (CEPAC) International Model, which simulates the natural history and treatment of HIV.\n In this new model, the CEPAC Dynamic Model (CDM), the probability of HIV transmission per sexual encounter between short-term, long-term and commercial sex worker partners depends upon the HIV RNA and disease stage of the infected partner, condom use, and the circumcision status of the uninfected male partner.\n We included behavioral, demographic and biological values in the CDM and calibrated to HIV prevalence in South Africa pre-antiretroviral therapy.\n Using a multi-step fitting procedure based on Bayesian melding methodology, we performed 264,225 simulations of the HIV epidemic in South Africa and identified 3,750 parameter sets that created an epidemic and had behavioral characteristics representative of a South African population pre-ART.\n Of these parameter sets, 564 contributed 90% of the likelihood weight to the fit, and closely reproduced the UNAIDS HIV prevalence curve in South Africa from 19902002. The calibration was sensitive to changes in the rate of formation of short-duration partnerships and to the partnership acquisition rate among high-risk individuals, both of which impacted concurrency.\n Runs that closely fit to historical HIV prevalence reflect diverse ranges for individual parameter values and predict a wide range of possible steady-state prevalence in the absence of interventions, illustrating the value of the calibration procedure and utility of the model for evaluating interventions.\n This model, which includes detailed behavioral patterns and HIV natural history, closely fits HIV prevalence estimates.\n","id":"PMC4035281","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Public Library of Science","authors":[{"firstname":"Alethea W.","surname":"McCormick","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Nadia N.","surname":"Abuelezam","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Erin R.","surname":"Rhode","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Taige","surname":"Hou","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Rochelle P.","surname":"Walensky","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Pamela P.","surname":"Pei","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jessica E.","surname":"Becker","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Madeline A.","surname":"DiLorenzo","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Elena","surname":"Losina","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Kenneth A.","surname":"Freedberg","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Marc","surname":"Lipsitch","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"George R.","surname":"Seage","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Chen","surname":"Liang","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Chen","surname":"Liang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1126/science.abg5298","date":"2021-04-22","title":"Socioeconomic status determines COVID-19 incidence and related mortality in Santiago, Chile","abstract":"Santiago, Chile, is a highly segregated city with distinct zones of affluence and deprivation.\n This setting offers a window on how social factors propel the severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) pandemic in an economically vulnerable society with high levels of income inequality.\n Mena et al.\n analyzed incidence and mortality attributed to SARS-CoV-2 to understand spatial variations in disease burden.\n Infection fatality rates were higher in lower-income municipalities because of comorbidities and lack of access to health care.\n Disparities between municipalities in the quality of their health care delivery system became apparent in testing delays and capacity.\n These indicators explain a large part of the variation in COVID-19 underreporting and deaths and show that these inequalities disproportionately affected younger people.\n","id":"PMC8158961","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"American Association for the Advancement of Science","authors":[{"firstname":"Gonzalo E.","surname":"Mena","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Pamela P.","surname":"Martinez","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Pamela P.","surname":"Martinez","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ayesha S.","surname":"Mahmud","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Ayesha S.","surname":"Mahmud","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Pablo A.","surname":"Marquet","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Pablo A.","surname":"Marquet","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Caroline O.","surname":"Buckee","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Caroline O.","surname":"Buckee","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Mauricio","surname":"Santillana","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1186/s12916-020-01640-8","date":"2020-05-18","title":"Ethnic and socioeconomic differences in SARS-CoV-2 infection: prospective cohort study using UK Biobank","abstract":"Background\nid='Par1'>Understanding of the role of ethnicity and socioeconomic position in the risk of developing SARS-CoV-2 infection is limited.\n\n We investigated this in the UK Biobank study.\n\n\nMethods\nid='Par2'>The UK Biobank study recruited 4070-year-olds in 20062010 from the general population, collecting information about self-defined ethnicity and socioeconomic variables (including area-level socioeconomic deprivation and educational attainment).\n\n SARS-CoV-2 test results from Public Health England were linked to baseline UK Biobank data.\n\n Poisson regression with robust standard errors was used to assess risk ratios (RRs) between the exposures and dichotomous variables for being tested, having a positive test and testing positive in hospital.\n\n We also investigated whether ethnicity and socioeconomic position were associated with having a positive test amongst those tested.\n\n We adjusted for covariates including age, sex, social variables (including healthcare work and household size), behavioural risk factors and baseline health.\n\n\nResults\nid='Par3'>Amongst 392,116 participants in England, 2658 had been tested for SARS-CoV-2 and 948 tested positive (726 in hospital) between 16 March and 3 May 2020. Black and south Asian groups were more likely to test positive (RR 3.35 (95% CI 2.484.53) and RR 2.42 (95% CI 1.753.36) respectively), with Pakistani ethnicity at highest risk within the south Asian group (RR 3.24 (95% CI 1.736.07)).\n\n These ethnic groups were more likely to be hospital cases compared to the white British.\n\n Adjustment for baseline health and behavioural risk factors led to little change, with only modest attenuation when accounting for socioeconomic variables.\n\n Socioeconomic deprivation and having no qualifications were consistently associated with a higher risk of confirmed infection (RR 2.19 for most deprived quartile vs least (95% CI 1.802.66) and RR 2.00 for no qualifications vs degree (95% CI 1.662.42)).\n\n\nConclusions\nid='Par4'>Some minority ethnic groups have a higher risk of confirmed SARS-CoV-2 infection in the UK Biobank study, which was not accounted for by differences in socioeconomic conditions, baseline self-reported health or behavioural risk factors.\n\n An urgent response to addressing these elevated risks is required.\n\n\n","id":"PMC7255908","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"BioMed Central","authors":[{"firstname":"Claire L.","surname":"Niedzwiedz","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Catherine A.","surname":"ODonnell","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Bhautesh Dinesh","surname":"Jani","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Evangelia","surname":"Demou","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Frederick K.","surname":"Ho","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Carlos","surname":"Celis-Morales","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Barbara I.","surname":"Nicholl","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Frances S.","surname":"Mair","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Paul","surname":"Welsh","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Naveed","surname":"Sattar","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jill P.","surname":"Pell","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"S. Vittal","surname":"Katikireddi","email":"vittal.katikireddi@glasgow.ac.uk","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The slave trade and the origins of mistrust in Africa","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Understanding disparities in HIV infection between black and white MSM in the United States","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"On the coloniality of global public health","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/j.socscimed.2021.113741","date":"2021-01-31","title":"Reparations for Black American descendants of persons enslaved in the U.S. and their potential impact on SARS-CoV-2 transmission","abstract":"Background\nIn the United States, Black Americans are suffering from a significantly disproportionate incidence of COVID-19. Going beyond mere epidemiological tallying, the potential for racial-justice interventions, including reparations payments, to ameliorate these disparities has not been adequately explored.\n\n\nMethods\nWe compared the COVID-19 time-varying Rt curves of relatively disparate polities in terms of social equity (South Korea vs.\n\n Louisiana).\n\n Next, we considered a range of reproductive ratios to back-calculate the transmission rates ?i?j for 4?cells of the simplified next-generation matrix (from which R0 is calculated for structured models) for the outbreak in Louisiana.\n\n Lastly, we considered the potential structural effects monetary payments as reparations for Black American descendants of persons enslaved in the U.\n\nS.\n\n would have had on pre-intervention ?i?j and consequently R0.\n\n\nResults\nOnce their respective epidemics begin to propagate, Louisiana displays Rt values with an absolute difference of 1.32.5 compared to South Korea.\n\n It also takes Louisiana more than twice as long to bring Rt below 1. Reasoning through the consequences of increased equity via matrix transmission models, we demonstrate how the benefits of a successful reparations program (reflected in the ratio ?b?b/?w?w) could reduce R0 by 3168%.\n\n\nDiscussion\nWhile there are compelling moral and historical arguments for racial-injustice interventions such as reparations, our study considers potential health benefits in the form of reduced SARS-CoV-2 transmission risk.\n\n A restitutive program targeted towards Black individuals would not only decrease COVID-19 risk for recipients of the wealth redistribution; the mitigating effects would also be distributed across racial groups, benefiting the population at large.\n\n\n","id":"PMC7871902","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.","authors":[{"firstname":"Eugene T.","surname":"Richardson","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Momin M.","surname":"Malik","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"William A.","surname":"Darity","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"A. Kirsten","surname":"Mullen","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Michelle E.","surname":"Morse","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Maya","surname":"Malik","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Aletha","surname":"Maybank","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Mary T.","surname":"Bassett","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Paul E.","surname":"Farmer","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Lee","surname":"Worden","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"James Holland","surname":"Jones","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.2105/AJPH.2012.301003","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Network Mixing and Network Influences Most Linked to HIV Infection and Risk Behavior in the HIV Epidemic Among Black Men Who Have Sex With Men","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/S0140-6736(14)60931-4","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Global epidemiology of HIV among female sex workers: influence of structural determinants","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Explaining racial disparities in HIV incidence in black and white men who have sex with men in Atlanta, GA: a prospective observational cohort study","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Factors associated with racial/ethnic group-based medical mistrust and perspectives on COVID-19 vaccine trial participation and vaccine uptake in the US","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1007/s10461-021-03430-6","date":"2021-08-07","title":"HIV Transmission Potential and Sex Partner Concurrency: Evidence for Racial Disparities in HIV Risk Among Gay and Bisexual Men (MSM)","abstract":"id='Par1'>We determined whether racial disparities in HIV infection among gay and bisexual men (MSM) may be partially explained by racial differences in the HIV transmission potential (i.\ne.\n mixing of people living with HIV and people not living with HIV or of unknown HIV serostatus) and density (i.\ne.\n sex partner concurrency) of sexual networks.\n Data included a behavioral survey, testing for HIV, and an egocentric sexual network survey.\n Mixed effects logistic regressions were used for hypothesis testing.\n Black (vs.\n non-Black) MSM were more likely to not know their partners HIV serostatus (21.8% vs.\n 9.6%).\n Similar proportions reported sex partner concurrency (67.1% vs.\n 68.0%).\n In adjusted analyses, among Black MSM, sex partner concurrency significantly increased the odds of an HIV transmission potential partnership (TPP), and this association was not significant among non-Black indexes.\n The association between an HIV TPP and sex partner concurrency may help explain persistent racial disparities in HIV prevalence.\n","id":"PMC8840903","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Springer US","authors":[{"firstname":"Carla","surname":"Tilchin","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jessica","surname":"Wagner","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Christina M.","surname":"Schumacher","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Khalil G.","surname":"Ghanem","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Matthew M.","surname":"Hamill","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Anne","surname":"Rompalo","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Errol","surname":"Fields","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Carl A.","surname":"Latkin","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Adena","surname":"Greenbaum","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jacky M.","surname":"Jennings","email":"jennings@jhmi.edu","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Combination HIV prevention: the value and interpretation of mathematical models","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.18564/jasss.4816","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Integrating Equity Considerations into Agent-Based Modeling: A Conceptual Framework and Practical Guidance","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Understanding the epidemic of HIV in South Africa","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1371/journal.pcbi.1009795","date":"1970-01-01","title":"There are no equal opportunity infectors: Epidemiological modelers must rethink our approach to inequality in infection risk","abstract":"Mathematical models have come to play a key role in global pandemic preparedness and outbreak response: helping to plan for disease burden, hospital capacity, and inform nonpharmaceutical interventions.\n Such models have played a pivotal role in the COVID-19 pandemic, with transmission modelsand, by consequence, modelersguiding global, national, and local responses to SARS-CoV-2. However, these models have largely not accounted for the social and structural factors, which lead to socioeconomic, racial, and geographic health disparities.\n In this piece, we raise and attempt to clarify several questions relating to this important gap in the research and practice of infectious disease modeling: Why do epidemiologic models of emerging infections typically ignore known structural drivers of disparate health outcomes? What have been the consequences of a framework focused primarily on aggregate outcomes on infection equity? What should be done to develop a more holistic approach to modeling-based decision-making during pandemics? In this review, we evaluate potential historical and political explanations for the exclusion of drivers of disparity in infectious disease models for emerging infections, which have often been characterized as equal opportunity infectors despite ample evidence to the contrary.\n We look to examples from other disease systems (HIV, STIs) and successes in including social inequity in models of acute infection transmission as a blueprint for how social connections, environmental, and structural factors can be integrated into a coherent, rigorous, and interpretable modeling framework.\n We conclude by outlining principles to guide modeling of emerging infections in ways that represent the causes of inequity in infection as central rather than peripheral mechanisms.\n","id":"PMC8827449","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Public Library of Science","authors":[{"firstname":"Jon","surname":"Zelner","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Nina B.","surname":"Masters","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Nina B.","surname":"Masters","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ramya","surname":"Naraharisetti","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Ramya","surname":"Naraharisetti","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Sanyu A.","surname":"Mojola","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Sanyu A.","surname":"Mojola","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Merlin","surname":"Chowkwanyun","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Merlin","surname":"Chowkwanyun","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ryan","surname":"Malosh","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jason A.","surname":"Papin","email":"NULL","contributions":"3"},{"firstname":"Jason A.","surname":"Papin","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jason A.","surname":"Papin","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"NULL","surname":"NULL","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"NULL","surname":"NULL","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]}]},{"doi":"10.1016/s0749-3797(02)00490-7","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Disease outbreak detection system using syndromic data in the greater Washington DC area","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"10.1186/s12889-017-4372-y","date":"2017-05-07","title":"Correcting for day of the week and public holiday effects: improving a national daily syndromic surveillance service for detecting public health threats","abstract":"Background\nAs service provision and patient behaviour varies by day, healthcare data used for public health surveillance can exhibit large day of the week effects.\n\n These regular effects are further complicated by the impact of public holidays.\n\n Real-time syndromic surveillance requires the daily analysis of a range of healthcare data sources, including family doctor consultations (called general practitioners, or GPs, in the UK).\n\n Failure to adjust for such reporting biases during analysis of syndromic GP surveillance data could lead to misinterpretations including false alarms or delays in the detection of outbreaks.\n\n\nMethods\nThe extended working day moving average was developed.\n\n This is a further data-driven method for adding a smooth trend curve to a time series graph of daily healthcare data, that aims to take both public holiday and day of the week effects into account.\n\n It is based on the assumption that the number of people seeking healthcare services is a combination of illness levels/severity and the ability or desire of patients to seek healthcare each day.\n\n The extended working day moving average was compared to the seven-day and working day moving averages through application to data from two syndromic indicators from the GP in-hours syndromic surveillance system managed by Public Health England.\n\n\nResults\nThe extended working day moving average successfully smoothed the syndromic healthcare data by taking into account the combined day of the week and public holiday effects.\n\n In comparison, the seven-day and working day moving averages were unable to account for all these effects, which led to misleading smoothing curves.\n\n\nConclusions\nThe results from this study make it possible to identify trends and unusual activity in syndromic surveillance data from GP services in real-time independently of the effects caused by day of the week and public holidays, thereby improving the public health action resulting from the analysis of these data.\n\n\n","id":"PMC5438549","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"BioMed Central","authors":[{"firstname":"Elizabeth","surname":"Buckingham-Jeffery","email":"E.Buckingham-Jeffery@manchester.ac.uk","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Roger","surname":"Morbey","email":"Roger.Morbey@phe.gov.uk","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Roger","surname":"Morbey","email":"Roger.Morbey@phe.gov.uk","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Thomas","surname":"House","email":"thomas.house@manchester.ac.uk","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Alex J.","surname":"Elliot","email":"Alex.Elliot@phe.gov.uk","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Sally","surname":"Harcourt","email":"Sally.Harcourt@phe.gov.uk","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Gillian E.","surname":"Smith","email":"Gillian.Smith@phe.gov.uk","contributions":"1"}],"References depth 2":[{"doi":"10.1016/S0140-6736(11)60834-9","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Assessment of syndromic surveillance in Europe","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/j.puhe.2013.05.007","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Syndromic surveillance - a public health legacy of the London 2012 Olympic and Paralympic Games","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1017/S0950268812001781","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Developing a new syndromic surveillance system for the London 2012 Olympic and Paralympic Games","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1136/emermed-2011-200684","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Establishing an emergency department syndromic surveillance system to support the London 2012 Olympic and Paralympic Games","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Harcourt SE, Morbey RA, Loveridge P, Carrilho L, Baynham D, Povey E, Fox P, Rutter J, Moores P, Tiffen J, et al. Developing and validating a new national remote health advice syndromic surveillance system in England. J Public health. 2016;39(1):184-92.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Visualization for modeling and simulation: visualization methods for time-dependent data - an overview","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Hauenstein L, Wojcik R, Loschen W, Ashar R, Sniegoski C, Tabernero N. Putting it together: the biosurveillance information system. In: Lombardo JS, Buckeridge DL, editors. Disease Surveillance A Public Health Informatics Approach. NJ: John Wiley &amp; Sons Inc; 2007.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1080/135952201317225462","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Data visualisation for time series in environmental epidemiology","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1017/S095026881100046X","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Use of a large general practice syndromic surveillance system to monitor the progress of the influenza A(H1N1) pandemic 2009 in the UK","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Morbey RA, Elliot AJ, Charlett A, Verlander NQ, Andrews N, Smith GE. The application of a novel 'rising activity, multi-level mixed effects, indicator emphasis' (RAMMIE) method for syndromic surveillance in England. Bioinformatics. 2015;31(22):3660-5.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Visualization techniques and graphical user interfaces in syndromic surveillance systems. Summary from the Disease Surveillance Workshop, Sept. 11-12, 2007; Bangkok, Thailand","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Research and Analysis: GP in hours bulletin. https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/gp-in-hours-bulletin. Accessed 12 May 2017.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1197/jamia.M1356","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Implementing Syndromic Surveillance: A Practical Guide Informed by the Early Experience","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1371/journal.pmed.0050072","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Syndromic Surveillance: Adapting Innovations to Developing Settings","abstract":"The tools and strategies of syndromic surveillance, say the authors, hold promise for improving public health security in developing countries.\n","id":"PMC2270304","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Public Library of Science","authors":[{"firstname":"Jean-Paul","surname":"Chretien","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Howard S","surname":"Burkom","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Endang R","surname":"Sedyaningsih","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ria P","surname":"Larasati","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Andres G","surname":"Lescano","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Carmen C","surname":"Mundaca","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"David L","surname":"Blazes","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Cesar V","surname":"Munayco","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jacqueline S","surname":"Coberly","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Raj J","surname":"Ashar","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Sheri H","surname":"Lewis","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.7205/MILMED-D-15-00226","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Intra-Weekly Variations of Influenza-Like Illness in Military Populations","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1017/S0950268807009910","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Lessons from 40 years' surveillance of influenza in England and Wales","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Wong W-K, Moore AW. Classical Time-Series Methods for Biosurveillance. In: Wagner MM, Moore AW, Aryel RM, editors. Handbook of Biosurveillance. MA: Elsevier Academic Press; 2006.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1186/0778-7367-68-3-115","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Timeliness of syndromic influenza surveillance through work and school absenteeism","abstract":"In this paper, we investigate the usefulness of work and school absenteeism surveillance as an early warning system for influenza.\n In particular, time trends in daily absenteeism rates collected during the A(H1N1)2009 pandemic are compared with weekly incidence rates of influenza-like illness (ILI) obtained from the Belgian Sentinel General Practitioner (SGP) network.\n The results indicate a rise in absenteeism rates prior to the onset of the influenza epidemic, suggesting that absenteeism surveillance is a promising tool for early warning of influenza epidemics.\n To convincingly conclude on the usefulness of absenteeism data for early warning, additional data covering several influenza seasons is needed.\n","id":"PMC3463027","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"BioMed Central","authors":[{"firstname":"K","surname":"Bollaerts","email":"kaatje.bollaerts@wiv-isp.be","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"J","surname":"Antoine","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"E","surname":"Robesyn","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"L","surname":"Van Proeyen","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"J","surname":"Vomberg","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"E","surname":"Feys","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"E","surname":"De Decker","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"B","surname":"Catry","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.1002/sim.2835","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Automated time series forecasting for biosurveillance","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"A Spatiotemporal Analysis of Syndromic Data for Biosurveillance","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1198/TECH.2010.06134","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Statistical challenges in modern biosurveillance","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Wijk JJV, Selow ERV. Cluster and calendar based visualization of time series data. In: Information Visualization, 1999 (Info Vis '99) Proceedings 1999 IEEE Symposium; 1999. p. 4-9, 140.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Maciejewski R, Rudolph S, Grannis SJ, Ebert DS. The day-of-the-week effect: a study across the Indiana Public Health Emergency Surveillance System. International Society for Disease Surveillance Annual Conference Advances in Disease Surveillance 2008, 5(44).","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Engineering Statistics Handbook: e-Handbook of Statistical Methods. http://www.itl.nist.gov/div898/handbook/. Accessed 12 May 2017.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1198/TECH.2010.06134","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Statistical Challenges Facing Early Outbreak Detection in Biosurveillance","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Lotze T, Shmueli G, Murphy S, Burkom H. A wavelet-based anomaly detector for early detection of disease outbreaks. In: Workshop on Machine Learning Algorithms for Surveillance and Event Detection, 23rd Intl Conference on Machine Learning; 2006.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Siegrist D, McClellan G, Campbell M, Foster V, Burkom H, Hogan W, Cheng K, Buckeridge D, Pavlin J, Kress A. Evaluation of algorithms for outbreak detection using clinical data from five us cities. VA: Technical report, DARPA Bio-ALIRT Program; 2004.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1111/j.1553-2712.2001.tb00550.x","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Predicting Patient Visits to an Urgent Care Clinic Using Calendar Variables","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1007/BF02642481","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Predicting daily visits to a waik-in clinic and emergency department using calendar and weather data","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1136/sextrans-2013-051391","date":"1970-01-01","title":"What are seasonal and meteorological factors are associated with the number of attendees at a sexual health service? An observational study between 2002-2012","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1017/S0950268815000503","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Internet-based remote health self-checker symptom data as an adjuvant to a national syndromic surveillance system","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]}]},{"doi":"10.1073/pnas.0610941104","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Public health interventions and epidemic intensity during the 1918 influenza pandemic","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Job displacement and mortality: an analysis using administrative data","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Earnings losses of displaced workers","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Goodman-Bacon A. Difference-in-differences with variation in treatment timing. NBER Working Paper No. 25018 [preprint]. Cambridge: National Bureau of Economic Research; 2018 [cited 2020 Jun 2]. Available from: https://www.nber.org/papers/w25018.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"How much should we trust differences-in-differences estimates?","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The COVID-19 pandemic: government versus community action across the United States","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"10.1001/jamainternmed.2020.3391","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Estimation of excess deaths associated with the COVID-19 pandemic in the United States, March to May 2020","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"10.1101/2020.05.04.20090324","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Excess mortality in the United States during the peak of the COVID-19 pandemic","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"10.1101/2020.04.18.20070821","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Estimating the Cumulative Incidence of COVID-19 in the United States Using Four Complementary Approaches","abstract":"id='P4'>Effectively designing and evaluating public health responses to the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic requires accurate estimation of the prevalence of COVID-19 across the United States (US).\n Equipment shortages and varying testing capabilities have however hindered the useful-ness of the official reported positive COVID-19 case counts.\n We introduce four complementary approaches to estimate the cumulative incidence of symptomatic COVID-19 in each state in the US as well as Puerto Rico and the District of Columbia, using a combination of excess influenza-like illness reports, COVID-19 test statistics, COVID-19 mortality reports, and a spatially structured epidemic model.\n Instead of relying on the estimate from a single data source or method that may be biased, we provide multiple estimates, each relying on different assumptions and data sources.\n Across our four approaches emerges the consistent conclusion that on April 4, 2020, the estimated case count was 5 to 50 times higher than the official positive test counts across the different states.\n Nationally, our estimates of COVID-19 symptomatic cases as of April 4 have a likely range of 2.2 to 4.9 million, with possibly as many as 8.1 million cases, up to 26 times greater than the cumulative confirmed cases of about 311,000. Extending our method to May 16, 2020, we estimate that cumulative symptomatic incidence ranges from 6.0 to 10.3 million, as opposed to 1.5 million positive test counts.\n The proposed combination of approaches may prove useful in assessing the burden of COVID-19 during resurgences in the US and other countries with comparable surveillance systems.\n","id":"PMC7310656","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory","authors":[{"firstname":"Fred S.","surname":"Lu","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Andre T.","surname":"Nguyen","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Nicholas B.","surname":"Link","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jessica T.","surname":"Davis","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Matteo","surname":"Chinazzi","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xinyue","surname":"Xiong","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Alessandro","surname":"Vespignani","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Marc","surname":"Lipsitch","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Mauricio","surname":"Santillana","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}],"References depth 2":[{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Organization WH. Report of the WHO-China Joint Mission on Coronavirus Disease 2019;. Available from: https://www.who.int/publications-detail/report-of-the-who-china-joint-mission-on-coronavirus-disease-2019-(covid-19).","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Locations with Confirmed COVID-19 Cases;. Available from: https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/cases-updates/world-map.html.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1007/82_2019_172","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Enhancing Situational Awareness to Prevent Infectious Disease Outbreaks from Becoming Catastrophic","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"D Shear M, Goodnough A, Kaplan S, Fink S, Thomas K, Weiland N. The Lost Month: How a Failure to Test Blinded the U.S. to Covid-19;. Available from: https://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/28/us/testing-coronavirus-pandemic.html.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Manrai AK, Mandl KD. Covid-19 testing: overcoming challenges in the next phase of the epidemic;. Available from: https://www.statnews.com/2020/03/31/covid-19-overcoming-testing-challenges/.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Byambasuren O, Cardona M, Bell K, Clark J, McLaws ML, Glasziou P. Estimating the extent of true asymptomatic COVID-19 and its potential for community transmission: systematic review and meta-analysis. Available at SSRN 3586675. 2020;.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The role of asymptomatic SARS-CoV-2 infections: rapid living systematic review and meta-analysis","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.7326/M20-3012","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Prevalence of Asymptomatic SARS-CoV-2 Infection","abstract":"Severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) has spread rapidly throughout the world since the first cases of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) were observed in December 2019 in Wuhan, China.\n It has been suspected that infected persons who remain asymptomatic play a significant role in the ongoing pandemic, but their relative number and effect have been uncertain.\n The authors sought to review and synthesize the available evidence on asymptomatic SARS-CoV-2 infection.\n Asymptomatic persons seem to account for approximately 40% to 45% of SARS-CoV-2 infections, and they can transmit the virus to others for an extended period, perhaps longer than 14 days.\n Asymptomatic infection may be associated with subclinical lung abnormalities, as detected by computed tomography.\n Because of the high risk for silent spread by asymptomatic persons, it is imperative that testing programs include those without symptoms.\n To supplement conventional diagnostic testing,\nwhich is constrained by capacity, cost, and its one-off nature, innovative tactics for public health surveillance, such as crowdsourcing digital wearable data and monitoring sewage sludge, might be helpful.\n","id":"PMC7281624","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"American College of Physicians","authors":[{"firstname":"Daniel P.","surname":"Oran","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Eric J.","surname":"Topol","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Substantial undocumented infection facilitates the rapid dissemination of novel coronavirus (SARS-CoV2)","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Kaashoek J, Santillana M. COVID-19 positive cases, evidence on the time evolution of the epidemic or an indicator of local testing capabilities? A case study in the United States. Available at SSRN: https://ssrncom/abstract=3574849, April. 2020;.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. FluView;. Available from: https://gis.cdc.gov/grasp/fluview/fluportaldashboard.html.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. U.S. Influenza Surveillance System: Purpose and Methods;. Available from: https://www.cdc.gov/flu/weekly/overview.htm.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1371/journal.pone.0006852","date":"2009-08-05","title":"Early Epidemiological Assessment of the Virulence of Emerging Infectious Diseases: A Case Study of an Influenza Pandemic","abstract":"Background\nThe case fatality ratio (CFR), the ratio of deaths from an infectious disease to the number of cases, provides an assessment of virulence.\n\n Calculation of the ratio of the cumulative number of deaths to cases during the course of an epidemic tends to result in a biased CFR.\n\n The present study develops a simple method to obtain an unbiased estimate of confirmed CFR (cCFR), using only the confirmed cases as the denominator, at an early stage of epidemic, even when there have been only a few deaths.\n\n\nMethodology/Principal Findings\nOur method adjusts the biased cCFR by a factor of underestimation which is informed by the time from symptom onset to death.\n\n We first examine the approach by analyzing an outbreak of severe acute respiratory syndrome in Hong Kong (2003) with known unbiased cCFR estimate, and then investigate published epidemiological datasets of novel swine-origin influenza A (H1N1) virus infection in the USA and Canada (2009).\n\n Because observation of a few deaths alone does not permit estimating the distribution of the time from onset to death, the uncertainty is addressed by means of sensitivity analysis.\n\n The maximum likelihood estimate of the unbiased cCFR for influenza may lie in the range of 0.164.48% within the assumed parameter space for a factor of underestimation.\n\n The estimates for influenza suggest that the virulence is comparable to the early estimate in Mexico.\n\n Even when there have been no deaths, our model permits estimating a conservative upper bound of the cCFR.\n\n\nConclusions\nAlthough one has to keep in mind that the cCFR for an entire population is vulnerable to its variations among sub-populations and underdiagnosis, our method is useful for assessing virulence at the early stage of an epidemic and for informing policy makers and the public.\n\n\n","id":"PMC2729920","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Public Library of Science","authors":[{"firstname":"Hiroshi","surname":"Nishiura","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Don","surname":"Klinkenberg","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Mick","surname":"Roberts","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Johan A. P.","surname":"Heesterbeek","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jean","surname":"Peccoud","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jean","surname":"Peccoud","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Russell T, Hellewell J, Abbott S, Jarvis C, van Zandvoort K, et al. Using a delay-adjusted case fatality ratio to estimate under-reporting. Centre for Mathematical Modeling of Infectious Diseases Repository. 2020;.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1038/s41586-020-2405-7","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Estimating the effects of non-pharmaceutical interventions on COVID-19 in Europe","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Forecasting COVID-19 impact on hospital bed-days, ICU-days, ventilator-days and deaths by US state in the next 4 months","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1073/pnas.0902958106","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Reconstructing influenza incidence by deconvolution of daily mortality time series","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1126/science.aba9757","date":"2020-03-05","title":"The effect of travel restrictions on the spread of the 2019 novel coronavirus (COVID-19) outbreak","abstract":"In response to global dispersion of severe acute respiratory syndromecoronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2), quarantine measures have been implemented around the world.\n To understand how travel and quarantine influence the dynamics of the spread of this novel human virus, Chinazzi et al.\n applied a global metapopulation disease transmission model to epidemiological data from China.\n They concluded that the travel quarantine introduced in Wuhan on 23 January 2020 only delayed epidemic progression by 3 to 5 days within China, but international travel restrictions did help to slow spread elsewhere in the world until mid-February.\n Their results suggest that early detection, hand washing, self-isolation, and household quarantine will likely be more effective than travel restrictions at mitigating this pandemic.\n","id":"PMC7164386","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"American Association for the Advancement of Science","authors":[{"firstname":"Matteo","surname":"Chinazzi","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jessica T.","surname":"Davis","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jessica T.","surname":"Davis","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Marco","surname":"Ajelli","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Corrado","surname":"Gioannini","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Maria","surname":"Litvinova","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Stefano","surname":"Merler","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Stefano","surname":"Merler","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ana","surname":"Pastore y Piontti","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Kunpeng","surname":"Mu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Luca","surname":"Rossi","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Kaiyuan","surname":"Sun","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ccile","surname":"Viboud","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ccile","surname":"Viboud","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xinyue","surname":"Xiong","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xinyue","surname":"Xiong","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hongjie","surname":"Yu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"M. Elizabeth","surname":"Halloran","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"M. Elizabeth","surname":"Halloran","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ira M.","surname":"Longini","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ira M.","surname":"Longini","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Alessandro","surname":"Vespignani","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Alessandro","surname":"Vespignani","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Reich NG, Ray EL, Gibson GC, Cramer E, Rivers CM. Looking for evidence of a high burden of COVID-19 in the United States from influenza-like illness data;. Available from: https://github.com/reichlab/ncov/blob/master/analyses/ili-labtest-report.pdf.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Using ILI surveillance to estimate state-specific case detection rates and forecast SARS-CoV-2 spread in the United States","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/S1473-3099(20)30243-7","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Estimates of the severity of coronavirus disease 2019: a model-based analysis","abstract":"Background\nIn the face of rapidly changing data, a range of case fatality ratio estimates for coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) have been produced that differ substantially in magnitude.\n\n We aimed to provide robust estimates, accounting for censoring and ascertainment biases.\n\n\nMethods\nWe collected individual-case data for patients who died from COVID-19 in Hubei, mainland China (reported by national and provincial health commissions to Feb 8, 2020), and for cases outside of mainland China (from government or ministry of health websites and media reports for 37 countries, as well as Hong Kong and Macau, until Feb 25, 2020).\n\n These individual-case data were used to estimate the time between onset of symptoms and outcome (death or discharge from hospital).\n\n We next obtained age-stratified estimates of the case fatality ratio by relating the aggregate distribution of cases to the observed cumulative deaths in China, assuming a constant attack rate by age and adjusting for demography and age-based and location-based under-ascertainment.\n\n We also estimated the case fatality ratio from individual line-list data on 1334 cases identified outside of mainland China.\n\n Using data on the prevalence of PCR-confirmed cases in international residents repatriated from China, we obtained age-stratified estimates of the infection fatality ratio.\n\n Furthermore, data on age-stratified severity in a subset of 3665 cases from China were used to estimate the proportion of infected individuals who are likely to require hospitalisation.\n\n\nFindings\nUsing data on 24 deaths that occurred in mainland China and 165 recoveries outside of China, we estimated the mean duration from onset of symptoms to death to be 178 days (95% credible interval [CrI] 169192) and to hospital discharge to be 247 days (229281).\n\n In all laboratory confirmed and clinically diagnosed cases from mainland China (n=70?117), we estimated a crude case fatality ratio (adjusted for censoring) of 367% (95% CrI 356380).\n\n However, after further adjusting for demography and under-ascertainment, we obtained a best estimate of the case fatality ratio in China of 138% (123153), with substantially higher ratios in older age groups (032% [027038] in those aged &lt;60 years vs 64% [5772] in those aged ?60 years), up to 134% (112159) in those aged 80 years or older.\n\n Estimates of case fatality ratio from international cases stratified by age were consistent with those from China (parametric estimate 14% [0435] in those aged &lt;60 years [n=360] and 45% [18111] in those aged ?60 years [n=151]).\n\n Our estimated overall infection fatality ratio for China was 066% (039133), with an increasing profile with age.\n\n Similarly, estimates of the proportion of infected individuals likely to be hospitalised increased with age up to a maximum of 184% (110376) in those aged 80 years or older.\n\n\nInterpretation\nThese early estimates give an indication of the fatality ratio across the spectrum of COVID-19 disease and show a strong age gradient in risk of death.\n\n\nFunding\nUK Medical Research Council.\n\n\n","id":"PMC7158570","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Elsevier Science ;, The Lancet Pub. Group","authors":[{"firstname":"Robert","surname":"Verity","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Lucy C","surname":"Okell","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ilaria","surname":"Dorigatti","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Peter","surname":"Winskill","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Charles","surname":"Whittaker","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Natsuko","surname":"Imai","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Gina","surname":"Cuomo-Dannenburg","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hayley","surname":"Thompson","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Patrick G T","surname":"Walker","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Han","surname":"Fu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Amy","surname":"Dighe","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jamie T","surname":"Griffin","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Marc","surname":"Baguelin","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Sangeeta","surname":"Bhatia","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Adhiratha","surname":"Boonyasiri","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Anne","surname":"Cori","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zulma","surname":"Cucunub","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Rich","surname":"FitzJohn","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Katy","surname":"Gaythorpe","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Will","surname":"Green","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Arran","surname":"Hamlet","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Wes","surname":"Hinsley","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Daniel","surname":"Laydon","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Gemma","surname":"Nedjati-Gilani","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Steven","surname":"Riley","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Sabine","surname":"van Elsland","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Erik","surname":"Volz","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Haowei","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yuanrong","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xiaoyue","surname":"Xi","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Christl A","surname":"Donnelly","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Azra C","surname":"Ghani","email":"a.ghani@imperial.ac.uk","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Neil M","surname":"Ferguson","email":"neil.ferguson@imperial.ac.uk","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1016/j.ijid.2020.09.1464","date":"2020-09-24","title":"A systematic review and meta-analysis of published research data on COVID-19 infection fatality rates","abstract":"NULL\nAn important unknown during the coronavirus disease-2019 (COVID-19) pandemic has been the infection fatality rate (IFR).\n\n This differs from the case fatality rate (CFR) as an estimate of the number of deaths and as a proportion of the total number of cases, including those who are mild and asymptomatic.\n\n While the CFR is extremely valuable for experts, IFR is increasingly being called for by policy makers and the lay public as an estimate of the overall mortality from COVID-19.\nMethods\nPubmed, Medline, SSRN, and Medrxiv were searched using a set of terms and Boolean operators on 25/04/2020 and re-searched on 14/05/2020, 21/05/2020 and 16/06/2020. Articles were screened for inclusion by both authors.\n\n Meta-analysis was performed in Stata 15.1 by using the metan command, based on IFR and confidence intervals extracted from each study.\n\n Google/Google Scholar was used to assess the grey literature relating to government reports.\n\n\nResults\nAfter exclusions, there were 24 estimates of IFR included in the final meta-analysis, from a wide range of countries, published between February and June 2020.\nConclusion\nBased on a systematic review and meta-analysis of published evidence on COVID-19 until July 2020, the IFR of the disease across populations is 0.68% (0.53%0.82%).\n\n However, due to very high heterogeneity in the meta-analysis, it is difficult to know if this represents a completely unbiased point estimate.\n\n It is likely that, due to age and perhaps underlying comorbidities in the population, different places will experience different IFRs due to the disease.\n\n Given issues with mortality recording, it is also likely that this represents an underestimate of the true IFR figure.\n\n More research looking at age-stratified IFR is urgently needed to inform policymaking on this front.\n\n\n","id":"PMC7524446","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Published by Elsevier Ltd on behalf of International Society for Infectious Diseases.","authors":[{"firstname":"Gideon","surname":"Meyerowitz-Katz","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Lea","surname":"Merone","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. COVID-19 Pandemic Planning Scenarios;.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Rothwell J. Estimating COVID-19 Prevalence in Symptomatic Americans;. Available from: https://news.gallup.com/opinion/gallup/306458/estimating-covid-prevalence-symptomatic-americans.aspx.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Geldsetzer P. Knowledge and Perceptions of COVID-19 Among the General Public in the United States and the United Kingdom: A Cross-sectional Online Survey;. Available from: https://annals.org/aim/fullarticle/2763550/knowledge-perceptions-covid-19-among-general-public-united-states-united.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.2807/1560-7917.ES.2020.25.10.2000180","date":"2020-03-12","title":"Estimating the asymptomatic proportion of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) cases on board the Diamond Princess cruise ship, Yokohama, Japan, 2020","abstract":"On 5 February 2020, in Yokohama, Japan, a cruise ship hosting 3,711 people underwent a 2-week quarantine after a former passenger was found with COVID-19 post-disembarking.\n As at 20 February, 634 persons on board tested positive for the causative virus.\n We conducted statistical modelling to derive the delay-adjusted asymptomatic proportion of infections, along with the infections timeline.\n The estimated asymptomatic proportion was 17.9% (95% credible interval (CrI):?15.520.2%).\n Most infections occurred before the quarantine start.\n","id":"PMC7078829","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC)","authors":[{"firstname":"Kenji","surname":"Mizumoto","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Katsushi","surname":"Kagaya","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Katsushi","surname":"Kagaya","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Alexander","surname":"Zarebski","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Gerardo","surname":"Chowell","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"John T. Iceland lab's testing suggests 50% of coronavirus cases have no symptoms. CNN. 2020;.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Day M. Covid-19: identifying and isolating asymptomatic people helped eliminate virus in Italian village; 2020.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.2196/13403","date":"2019-07-19","title":"Differences in Regional Patterns of Influenza Activity Across Surveillance Systems in the United States: Comparative Evaluation","abstract":"Background\nThe Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) tracks influenza-like illness (ILI) using information on patient visits to health care providers through the Outpatient Influenza-like Illness Surveillance Network (ILINet).\n\n As participation in this system is voluntary, the composition, coverage, and consistency of health care reports vary from state to state, leading to different measures of ILI activity between regions.\n\n The degree to which these measures reflect actual differences in influenza activity or systematic differences in the methods used to collect and aggregate the data is unclear.\n\n\nObjective\nThe objective of our study was to qualitatively and quantitatively compare national and region-specific ILI activity in the United States across 4 surveillance data sourcesCDC ILINet, Flu Near You (FNY), athenahealth, and HealthTweets.\n\norgto determine whether these data sources, commonly used as input in influenza modeling efforts, show geographical patterns that are similar to those observed in CDC ILINets data.\n\n We also compared the yearly percentage of FNY participants who sought health care for ILI symptoms across geographical areas.\n\n\nMethods\nWe compared the national and regional 2018-2019 ILI activity baselines, calculated using noninfluenza weeks from previous years, for each surveillance data source.\n\n We also compared measures of ILI activity across geographical areas during 3 influenza seasons, 2015-2016, 2016-2017, and 2017-2018. Geographical differences in weekly ILI activity within each data source were also assessed using relative mean differences and time series heatmaps.\n\n National and regional age-adjusted health careseeking percentages were calculated for each influenza season by dividing the number of FNY participants who sought medical care for ILI symptoms by the total number of ILI reports within an influenza season.\n\n Pearson correlations were used to assess the association between the health careseeking percentages and baselines for each surveillance data source.\n\n\nResults\nWe observed consistent differences in ILI activity across geographical areas for CDC ILINet and athenahealth data.\n\n ILI activity for FNY displayed little variation across geographical areas, whereas differences in ILI activity for HealthTweets.\n\norg were associated with the total number of tweets within a geographical area.\n\n The percentage of FNY participants who sought health care for ILI symptoms differed slightly across geographical areas, and these percentages were positively correlated with CDC ILINet and athenahealth baselines.\n\n\nConclusions\nOur findings suggest that differences in ILI activity across geographical areas as reported by a given surveillance system may not accurately reflect true differences in the prevalence of ILI.\n\n Instead, these differences may reflect systematic collection and aggregation biases that are particular to each system and consistent across influenza seasons.\n\n These findings are potentially relevant in the real-time analysis of the influenza season and in the definition of unbiased forecast models.\n\n\n","id":"PMC6777281","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"JMIR Publications","authors":[{"firstname":"Gunther","surname":"Eysenbach","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Matthew","surname":"Biggerstaff","email":"NULL","contributions":"3"},{"firstname":"Matthew","surname":"Biggerstaff","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Onicio","surname":"Leal Neto","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Kristin","surname":"Baltrusaitis","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Kristin","surname":"Baltrusaitis","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Alessandro","surname":"Vespignani","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Alessandro","surname":"Vespignani","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Roni","surname":"Rosenfeld","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Roni","surname":"Rosenfeld","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Josh","surname":"Gray","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Josh","surname":"Gray","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Dorrie","surname":"Raymond","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Dorrie","surname":"Raymond","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Mauricio","surname":"Santillana","email":"msantill@fas.harvard.edu","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Mauricio","surname":"Santillana","email":"msantill@fas.harvard.edu","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.15585/mmwr.mm6912e1","date":"1970-01-01","title":"COVID-19 in a Long-Term Care Facility  King County, Washington, February 27March 9, 2020","abstract":"","id":"PMC7725515","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Centers for Disease Control and Prevention","authors":[{"firstname":"Temet M.","surname":"McMichael","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Shauna","surname":"Clark","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Sargis","surname":"Pogosjans","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Meagan","surname":"Kay","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"James","surname":"Lewis","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Atar","surname":"Baer","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Vance","surname":"Kawakami","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Margaret D.","surname":"Lukoff","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jessica","surname":"Ferro","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Claire","surname":"Brostrom-Smith","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Francis X.","surname":"Riedo","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Denny","surname":"Russell","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Brian","surname":"Hiatt","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Patricia","surname":"Montgomery","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Agam K.","surname":"Rao","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Dustin W.","surname":"Currie","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Eric J.","surname":"Chow","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Farrell","surname":"Tobolowsky","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ana C.","surname":"Bardossy","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Lisa P.","surname":"Oakley","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jesica R.","surname":"Jacobs","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Noah G.","surname":"Schwartz","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Nimalie","surname":"Stone","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Sujan C.","surname":"Reddy","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"John A.","surname":"Jernigan","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Margaret A.","surname":"Honein","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Thomas A.","surname":"Clark","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jeffrey S.","surname":"Duchin","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"NULL","surname":"NULL","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"NULL","surname":"NULL","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"NULL","surname":"NULL","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Meaghan S.","surname":"Fagalde","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jennifer L.","surname":"Lenahan","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Emily B.","surname":"Maier","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Kaitlyn J.","surname":"Sykes","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Grace","surname":"Hatt","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Holly","surname":"Whitney","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Melinda","surname":"Huntington-Frazier","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Elysia","surname":"Gonzales","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Laura A.","surname":"Mummert","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Hal Garcia","surname":"Smith","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Steve","surname":"Stearns","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Eileen","surname":"Benoliel","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Shelly","surname":"McKeirnan","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jennifer L.","surname":"Morgan","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Daniel","surname":"Smith","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Michaela","surname":"Hope","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Noel","surname":"Hatley","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Leslie M.","surname":"Barnard","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Leilani","surname":"Schwarcz","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Nicole","surname":"Yarid","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Eric","surname":"Yim","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Sandra","surname":"Kreider","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Dawn","surname":"Barr","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Nancy","surname":"Wilde","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Courtney","surname":"Dorman","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Airin","surname":"Lam","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jeanette","surname":"Harris","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Hollianne","surname":"Bruce","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Christopher","surname":"Spitters","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Snohomish Health","surname":"District","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Rachael","surname":"Zacks","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jonathan","surname":"Dyal","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Michael","surname":"Hughes","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Christina","surname":"Carlson","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Barbara","surname":"Cooper","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Michelle","surname":"Banks","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Heather","surname":"McLaughlin","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Arun","surname":"Balajee","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Christine","surname":"Olson","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Suzanne","surname":"Zane","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Hammad","surname":"Ali","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jessica","surname":"Healy","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Kristine","surname":"Schmit","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Kevin","surname":"Spicer","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Zeshan","surname":"Chisty","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Sukarma","surname":"Tanwar","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Joanne","surname":"Taylor","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Leisha","surname":"Nolen","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jeneita","surname":"Bell","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Kelly","surname":"Hatfield","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Melissa","surname":"Arons","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Anne","surname":"Kimball","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Allison","surname":"James","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Mark","surname":"Methner","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Joshua","surname":"Harney","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.1073/pnas.1515373112","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Accurate estimation of influenza epidemics using Google search data via ARGO","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1038/s41467-018-08082-0","date":"2018-12-12","title":"Improved state-level influenza nowcasting in the United States leveraging Internet-based data and network approaches","abstract":"id='Par1'>In the presence of health threats, precision public health approaches aim to provide targeted, timely, and population-specific interventions.\n Accurate surveillance methodologies that can estimate infectious disease activity ahead of official healthcare-based reports, at relevant spatial resolutions, are important for achieving this goal.\n Here we introduce a methodological frameworkwhich dynamically combines two distinct influenza tracking techniques, using an ensemble machine learning approach, to achieve improved state-level influenza activity estimates in the United States.\n The two predictive techniques behind the ensemble utilize (1)a self-correcting statistical method combining influenza-related Google search frequencies, information from electronic health records, and historical flutrends within each state, and(2) a network-based approach leveraging spatio-temporal synchronicities observed in historical influenza activity across states.\n The ensemble considerably outperforms each component method in addition to previously proposed state-specific methods for influenza tracking, with higher correlations and lower prediction errors.\n","id":"PMC6329822","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Nature Publishing Group UK","authors":[{"firstname":"Fred S.","surname":"Lu","email":"fredlu.flac@gmail.com","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Mohammad W.","surname":"Hattab","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Mohammad W.","surname":"Hattab","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Cesar Leonardo","surname":"Clemente","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Matthew","surname":"Biggerstaff","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Mauricio","surname":"Santillana","email":"msantill@g.harvard.edu","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1371/journal.pcbi.1005607","date":"2017-06-02","title":"Advances in using Internet searches to track dengue","abstract":"Dengue is a mosquito-borne disease that threatens over half of the worlds population.\n Despite being endemic to more than 100 countries, government-led efforts and tools for timely identification and tracking of new infections are still lacking in many affected areas.\n Multiple methodologies that leverage the use of Internet-based data sources have been proposed as a way to complement dengue surveillance efforts.\n Among these, dengue-related Google search trends have been shown to correlate with dengue activity.\n We extend a methodological framework, initially proposed and validated for flu surveillance, to produce near real-time estimates of dengue cases in five countries/states: Mexico, Brazil, Thailand, Singapore and Taiwan.\n Our result shows that our modeling framework can be used to improve the tracking of dengue activity in multiple locations around the world.\n","id":"PMC5519005","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Public Library of Science","authors":[{"firstname":"Shihao","surname":"Yang","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Samuel C.","surname":"Kou","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Fred","surname":"Lu","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"John S.","surname":"Brownstein","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"John S.","surname":"Brownstein","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Nicholas","surname":"Brooke","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Mauricio","surname":"Santillana","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Marcel","surname":"Salath","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Marcel","surname":"Salath","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Marcel","surname":"Salath","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"NULL","surname":"NULL","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"NULL","surname":"NULL","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1038/srep25732","date":"2016-04-20","title":"Cloud-based Electronic Health Records for Real-time, Region-specific Influenza Surveillance","abstract":"Accurate real-time monitoring systems of influenza outbreaks help public health officials make informed decisions that may help save lives.\n We show that information extracted from cloud-based electronic health records databases, in combination with machine learning techniques and historical epidemiological information, have the potential to accurately and reliably provide near real-time regional estimates of flu outbreaks in the United States.\n","id":"PMC4863169","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Nature Publishing Group","authors":[{"firstname":"M.","surname":"Santillana","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"A. T.","surname":"Nguyen","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"T.","surname":"Louie","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"A.","surname":"Zink","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"J.","surname":"Gray","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"I.","surname":"Sung","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"J. S.","surname":"Brownstein","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.1093/cid/ciu647","date":"2014-08-04","title":"Using Clinicians Search Query Data to Monitor Influenza Epidemics","abstract":"Search query information from a clinician's database, UpToDate, is shown to predict influenza epidemics in the United States in a timely manner.\n Our results show that digital disease surveillance tools based on experts' databases may be able to provide an alternative, reliable, and stable signal for accurate predictions of influenza outbreaks.\n","id":"PMC4296132","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Oxford University Press","authors":[{"firstname":"Mauricio","surname":"Santillana","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Elaine O.","surname":"Nsoesie","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Sumiko R.","surname":"Mekaru","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"David","surname":"Scales","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"John S.","surname":"Brownstein","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1093/cid/ciy073","date":"1970-01-01","title":"A smartphone-driven thermometer application for real-time population-and individual-level influenza surveillance","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Organization WH. Global Influenza Strategy 2019-2030;. Available from: https://www.who.int/influenza/global_influenza_strategy_2019_2030/en/.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Effect of non-pharmaceutical interventions for containing the COVID-19 outbreak: an observational and modelling study","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1371/journal.pcbi.1004513","date":"2015-08-24","title":"Combining Search, Social Media, and Traditional Data Sources to Improve Influenza Surveillance","abstract":"We present a machine learning-based methodology capable of providing real-time (nowcast) and forecast estimates of influenza activity in the US by leveraging data from multiple data sources including: Google searches, Twitter microblogs, nearly real-time hospital visit records, and data from a participatory surveillance system.\n Our main contribution consists of combining multiple influenza-like illnesses (ILI) activity estimates, generated independently with each data source, into a single prediction of ILI utilizing machine learning ensemble approaches.\n Our methodology exploits the information in each data source and produces accurate weekly ILI predictions for up to four weeks ahead of the release of CDCs ILI reports.\n We evaluate the predictive ability of our ensemble approach during the 20132014 (retrospective) and 20142015 (live) flu seasons for each of the four weekly time horizons.\n Our ensemble approach demonstrates several advantages: (1) our ensemble methods predictions outperform every prediction using each data source independently, (2) our methodology can produce predictions one week ahead of GFTs real-time estimates with comparable accuracy, and (3) our two and three week forecast estimates have comparable accuracy to real-time predictions using an autoregressive model.\n Moreover, our results show that considerable insight is gained from incorporating disparate data streams, in the form of social media and crowd sourced data, into influenza predictions in all time horizons.\n","id":"PMC4626021","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Public Library of Science","authors":[{"firstname":"Mauricio","surname":"Santillana","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Andr T.","surname":"Nguyen","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Mark","surname":"Dredze","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Michael J.","surname":"Paul","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Elaine O.","surname":"Nsoesie","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"John S.","surname":"Brownstein","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Marcel","surname":"Salath","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Marcel","surname":"Salath","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.2105/AJPH.2015.302696","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Flu near you: crowdsourced symptom reporting spanning 2 influenza seasons","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.2196/publichealth.7344","date":"2017-10-09","title":"Combining Participatory Influenza Surveillance with Modeling and Forecasting: Three Alternative Approaches","abstract":"Background\nInfluenza outbreaks affect millions of people every year and its surveillance is usually carried out in developed countries through a network of sentinel doctors who report the weekly number of Influenza-like Illness cases observed among the visited patients.\n\n Monitoring and forecasting the evolution of these outbreaks supports decision makers in designing effective interventions and allocating resources to mitigate their impact.\n\n\nObjective\nDescribe the existing participatory surveillance approaches that have been used for modeling and forecasting of the seasonal influenza epidemic, and how they can help strengthen real-time epidemic science and provide a more rigorous understanding of epidemic conditions.\n\n\nMethods\nWe describe three different participatory surveillance systems, WISDM (Widely Internet Sourced Distributed Monitoring), Influenzanet and Flu Near You (FNY), and show how modeling and simulation can be or has been combined with participatory disease surveillance to: i) measure the non-response bias in a participatory surveillance sample using WISDM; and ii) nowcast and forecast influenza activity in different parts of the world (using Influenzanet and Flu Near You).\n\n\nResults\nWISDM-based results measure the participatory and sample bias for three epidemic metrics i.\n\ne.\n\n attack rate, peak infection rate, and time-to-peak, and find the participatory bias to be the largest component of the total bias.\n\n The Influenzanet platform shows that digital participatory surveillance data combined with a realistic data-driven epidemiological model can provide both short-term and long-term forecasts of epidemic intensities, and the ground truth data lie within the 95 percent confidence intervals for most weeks.\n\n The statistical accuracy of the ensemble forecasts increase as the season progresses.\n\n The Flu Near You platform shows that participatory surveillance data provide accurate short-term flu activity forecasts and influenza activity predictions.\n\n The correlation of the HealthMap Flu Trends estimates with the observed CDC ILI rates is 0.99 for 2013-2015. Additional data sources lead to an error reduction of about 40% when compared to the estimates of the model that only incorporates CDC historical information.\n\n\nConclusions\nWhile the advantages of participatory surveillance, compared to traditional surveillance, include its timeliness, lower costs, and broader reach, it is limited by a lack of control over the characteristics of the population sample.\n\n Modeling and simulation can help overcome this limitation as well as provide real-time and long-term forecasting of influenza activity in data-poor parts of the world.\n\n\n","id":"PMC5688248","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"JMIR Publications","authors":[{"firstname":"Travis","surname":"Sanchez","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Michael","surname":"Johansson","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Michael","surname":"Johansson","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Qingpeng","surname":"Zhang","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Yannick","surname":"Vandendijck","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"John S","surname":"Brownstein","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"John S","surname":"Brownstein","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Shuyu","surname":"Chu","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Shuyu","surname":"Chu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Achla","surname":"Marathe","email":"amarathe@vt.edu","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Achla","surname":"Marathe","email":"amarathe@vt.edu","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Madhav V","surname":"Marathe","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Madhav V","surname":"Marathe","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Andre T","surname":"Nguyen","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Andre T","surname":"Nguyen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Daniela","surname":"Paolotti","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Daniela","surname":"Paolotti","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Nicola","surname":"Perra","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Nicola","surname":"Perra","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Daniela","surname":"Perrotta","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Daniela","surname":"Perrotta","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Mauricio","surname":"Santillana","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Mauricio","surname":"Santillana","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Samarth","surname":"Swarup","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Samarth","surname":"Swarup","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Michele","surname":"Tizzoni","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Michele","surname":"Tizzoni","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Alessandro","surname":"Vespignani","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Alessandro","surname":"Vespignani","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Anil Kumar S","surname":"Vullikanti","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Anil Kumar S","surname":"Vullikanti","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Mandy L","surname":"Wilson","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Mandy L","surname":"Wilson","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Qian","surname":"Zhang","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Qian","surname":"Zhang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Liu D, Clemente L, Poirier C, Ding X, Chinazzi M, Davis JT, et al. A machine learning methodology for real-time forecasting of the 2019-2020 COVID-19 outbreak using Internet searches, news alerts, and estimates from mechanistic models. arXiv preprint arXiv:200404019. 2020;.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1056/NEJMoa2001316","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Early Transmission Dynamics in Wuhan, China, of Novel CoronavirusInfected Pneumonia","abstract":"Background\nThe initial cases of novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV)infected pneumonia (NCIP) occurred in Wuhan, Hubei Province, China, in December 2019 and January 2020. We analyzed data on the first 425 confirmed cases in Wuhan to determine the epidemiologic characteristics of NCIP.\n\n\nMethods\nWe collected information on demographic characteristics, exposure history, and illness timelines of laboratory-confirmed cases of NCIP that had been reported by January 22, 2020. We described characteristics of the cases and estimated the key epidemiologic time-delay distributions.\n\n In the early period of exponential growth, we estimated the epidemic doubling time and the basic reproductive number.\n\n\nResults\nAmong the first 425 patients with confirmed NCIP, the median age was 59 years and 56% were male.\n\n The majority of cases (55%) with onset before January 1, 2020, were linked to the Huanan Seafood Wholesale Market, as compared with 8.6% of the subsequent cases.\n\n The mean incubation period was 5.2 days (95% confidence interval [CI], 4.1 to 7.0), with the 95th percentile of the distribution at 12.5 days.\n\n In its early stages, the epidemic doubled in size every 7.4 days.\n\n With a mean serial interval of 7.5 days (95% CI, 5.3 to 19), the basic reproductive number was estimated to be 2.2 (95% CI, 1.4 to 3.9).\n\n\nConclusions\nOn the basis of this information, there is evidence that human-to-human transmission has occurred among close contacts since the middle of December 2019. Considerable efforts to reduce transmission will be required to control outbreaks if similar dynamics apply elsewhere.\n\n Measures to prevent or reduce transmission should be implemented in populations at risk.\n\n (Funded by the Ministry of Science and Technology of China and others.\n\n)\n","id":"PMC7121484","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Massachusetts Medical Society","authors":[{"firstname":"Qun","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xuhua","surname":"Guan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Peng","surname":"Wu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xiaoye","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Lei","surname":"Zhou","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yeqing","surname":"Tong","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ruiqi","surname":"Ren","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Kathy S.M.","surname":"Leung","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Eric H.Y.","surname":"Lau","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jessica Y.","surname":"Wong","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xuesen","surname":"Xing","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Nijuan","surname":"Xiang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yang","surname":"Wu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Chao","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Qi","surname":"Chen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Dan","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Tian","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jing","surname":"Zhao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Man","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Wenxiao","surname":"Tu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Chuding","surname":"Chen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Lianmei","surname":"Jin","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Rui","surname":"Yang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Qi","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Suhua","surname":"Zhou","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Rui","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hui","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yinbo","surname":"Luo","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yuan","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ge","surname":"Shao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Huan","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zhongfa","surname":"Tao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yang","surname":"Yang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zhiqiang","surname":"Deng","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Boxi","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zhitao","surname":"Ma","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yanping","surname":"Zhang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Guoqing","surname":"Shi","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Tommy T.Y.","surname":"Lam","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Joseph T.","surname":"Wu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"George F.","surname":"Gao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Benjamin J.","surname":"Cowling","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Bo","surname":"Yang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Bo","surname":"Yang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Gabriel M.","surname":"Leung","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zijian","surname":"Feng","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Gutierrez E, Rubli A, Tavares T. Delays in death reports and their implications for tracking the evolution of COVID-19. Available at SSRN 3645304. 2020;.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1073/pnas.1415012112","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Inference of seasonal and pandemic influenza transmission dynamics","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Estimation of SARS-CoV-2 mortality during the early stages of an epidemic: a modelling study in Hubei, China and northern Italy","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1007/s10654-020-00698-1","date":"2020-11-10","title":"Assessing the age specificity of infection fatality rates for COVID-19: systematic review, meta-analysis, and public policy implications","abstract":"Electronic supplementary material\nThe online version of this article (10.1007/s10654-020-00698-1) contains supplementary material, which is available to authorized users.\n\n\n","id":"PMC7721859","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Springer Netherlands","authors":[{"firstname":"Andrew T.","surname":"Levin","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"William P.","surname":"Hanage","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Nana","surname":"Owusu-Boaitey","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Kensington B.","surname":"Cochran","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Seamus P.","surname":"Walsh","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Gideon","surname":"Meyerowitz-Katz","email":"gideon.meyerowitzkatz@health.nsw.gov.au","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. COVID-19 Pandemic Planning Scenarios:Updated July 10, 2020;.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Kliff S, Bosman J. Official Counts Understate the U.S. Coronavirus Death Toll. The New York Times. 2020;.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Health N. Confirmed and Probably COVID-19 Deaths Daily Report; 2020.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Times NY. Data from the New York Times, based on reports from state and local health agencies; 2020.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/S1473-3099(20)30120-1","date":"1970-01-01","title":"An interactive web-based dashboard to track COVID-19 in real time","abstract":"","id":"PMC7159018","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Elsevier Ltd.","authors":[{"firstname":"Ensheng","surname":"Dong","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hongru","surname":"Du","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Lauren","surname":"Gardner","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The COVID Tracking Project;. https://covidtracking.com/.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Bureau USC. Annual Estimates of the Civilian Population by Single Year of Age and Sex for the United States and States: April 1, 2010 to July 1, 2018; 2019.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1214/14-AOAS788","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Inferring causal impact using Bayesian structural time-series models","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1198/jasa.2009.ap08746","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Synthetic control methods for comparative case studies: Estimating the effect of California's tobacco control program","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1073/pnas.1708856115","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Forecasting the spatial transmission of influenza in the United States","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Carlos Cinelli AF, Pearl J. A Crash Course in Good and Bad Control;. Available from: http://causality.cs.ucla.edu/blog/index.php/category/back-door-criterion/.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1007/s00259-020-04734-w","date":"2020-02-17","title":"<sup>18</sup>F-FDG PET/CT findings of COVID-19: a series of four highly suspected cases","abstract":"Purpose\nid='Par1'>The aim of this case series is to illustrate the 18F-FDG PET/CT findings of patients with acute respiratory disease caused by COVID-19 in Wuhan, Hubei province of China.\n\n\nMethods\nid='Par2'>We describe the 18F-FDG PET/CT results from four patients who were admitted to the hospital with respiratory symptoms and fever between January 13 and January 20, 2020, when the COVID-19 outbreak was still unrecognized and the virus infectivity was unknown.\n\n A retrospective review of the patients medical history, clinical and laboratory data, as well as imaging findings strongly suggested a diagnosis of COVID-19.\nResults\nid='Par3'>All patients had peripheral ground-glass opacities and/or lung consolidations in more than two pulmonary lobes.\n\n Lung lesions were characterized by a high 18F-FDG uptake and there was evidence of lymph node involvement.\n\n Conversely, disseminated disease was absent, a finding suggesting that COVID-19 has pulmonary tropism.\n\n\nConclusions\nid='Par4'>Although 18F-FDG PET/CT cannot be routinely used in an emergency setting and is generally not recommended for infectious diseases, our pilot data shed light on the potential clinical utility of this imaging technique in the differential diagnosis of complex cases.\n\n\n","id":"PMC7080035","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Springer Berlin Heidelberg","authors":[{"firstname":"Chunxia","surname":"Qin","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Fang","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Tzu-Chen","surname":"Yen","email":"yentc1110@gmail.com","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Xiaoli","surname":"Lan","email":"xiaoli_lan@hust.edu.cn","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Laboratory diagnosis and monitoring the viral shedding of 2019-nCoV infections","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.3390/jcm9020538","date":"2020-02-10","title":"Incubation Period and Other Epidemiological Characteristics of 2019 Novel Coronavirus Infections with Right Truncation: A Statistical Analysis of Publicly Available Case Data","abstract":"The geographic spread of 2019 novel coronavirus (COVID-19) infections from the epicenter of Wuhan, China, has provided an opportunity to study the natural history of the recently emerged virus.\n Using publicly available event-date data from the ongoing epidemic, the present study investigated the incubation period and other time intervals that govern the epidemiological dynamics of COVID-19 infections.\n Our results show that the incubation period falls within the range of 214 days with 95% confidence and has a mean of around 5 days when approximated using the best-fit lognormal distribution.\n The mean time from illness onset to hospital admission (for treatment and/or isolation) was estimated at 34 days without truncation and at 59 days when right truncated.\n Based on the 95th percentile estimate of the incubation period, we recommend that the length of quarantine should be at least 14 days.\n The median time delay of 13 days from illness onset to death (17 days with right truncation) should be considered when estimating the COVID-19 case fatality risk.\n","id":"PMC7074197","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"MDPI","authors":[{"firstname":"Natalie M.","surname":"Linton","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Tetsuro","surname":"Kobayashi","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Tetsuro","surname":"Kobayashi","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yichi","surname":"Yang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Katsuma","surname":"Hayashi","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Andrei R.","surname":"Akhmetzhanov","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Sung-mok","surname":"Jung","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Sung-mok","surname":"Jung","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Baoyin","surname":"Yuan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Baoyin","surname":"Yuan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ryo","surname":"Kinoshita","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hiroshi","surname":"Nishiura","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hiroshi","surname":"Nishiura","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Incidence, clinical outcomes, and transmission dynamics of hospitalized 2019 coronavirus disease among 9,596,321 individuals residing in California and Washington, United States: a prospective cohort study","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1109/TMI.1982.4307558","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Maximum likelihood reconstruction for emission tomography","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Ferguson N, Laydon D, Nedjati Gilani G, Imai N, Ainslie K, Baguelin M, et al. Report 9: Impact of non-pharmaceutical interventions (NPIs) to reduce COVID19 mortality and healthcare demand. Imperial College London. 2020;.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Estimating the early death toll of COVID-19 in the United States","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Brown E, Reinhard B, Davis A. Coronavirus death toll: Americans are almost certainly dying of covid-19 but being left out of the official count. the Washington Post. 2020;.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1111/irv.12096","date":"2013-01-16","title":"Mortality burden of the 2009?10 influenza pandemic in the <styled-content style='fixed-case'>U</styled-content>nited <styled-content style='fixed-case'>S</styled-content>tates: improving the timeliness of influenza severity estimates using inpatient mortality records","abstract":"Background\nDelays in the release of national vital statistics hinder timely assessment of influenza severity, especially during pandemics.\n\n Inpatient mortality records could provide timelier estimates of influenza?associated mortality.\n\n\nMethods\nWe compiled weekly age?specific deaths for various causes from US State Inpatient Databases (19902010) and national vital statistics (19902009).\n\n We calculated influenza?attributable excess deaths by season based on Poisson regression models driven by indicators of respiratory virus activity, seasonality, and temporal trends.\n\n\nResults\nExtrapolations of excess mortality from inpatient data fell within 11% and 17% of vital statistics estimates for pandemic and seasonal influenza, respectively, with high year?to?year correlation (Spearman's rho=087090, P&lt;0001, n=19).\n\n We attribute 14800 excess respiratory and cardiac deaths (95% CI: 1000019650) to pandemic influenza activity during April 2009April 2010, 79% of which occurred in people under 65years.\n\n\nConclusions\nModeling inpatient mortality records provides useful estimates of influenza severity in advance of national vital statistics release, capturing both the magnitude and the age distribution of pandemic and epidemic deaths.\n\n We provide the first age? and cause?specific estimates of the 2009 pandemic mortality burden using traditional excess mortality methods, confirming the unusual burden of this virus in young populations.\n\n Our inpatient?based approach could help monitor mortality trends in other infectious diseases.\n\n\n","id":"PMC3674131","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"John Wiley and Sons Inc.","authors":[{"firstname":"Vivek","surname":"Charu","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Lone","surname":"Simonsen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Roger","surname":"Lustig","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Claudia","surname":"Steiner","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ccile","surname":"Viboud","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1016/S1473-3099(12)70121-4","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Estimated global mortality associated with the first 12 months of 2009 pandemic influenza A H1N1 virus circulation: a modelling study","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Weekly counts of death by jurisdiction and cause of death;.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Mistry D, Litvinova M, Chinazzi M, Fumanelli L, Gomes MF, Haque SA, et al. Inferring high-resolution human mixing patterns for disease modeling. arXiv preprint arXiv:200301214. 2020;.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"International Air Transportation Association https://www.iata.org/;.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Official Aviation Guide https://www.oag.com/;.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1073/pnas.0906910106","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Multiscale mobility networks and the spatial spreading of infectious diseases","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/j.jocs.2010.07.002","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Modeling the spatial spread of infectious diseases: The GLobal Epidemic and Mobility computational model","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1073/pnas.1620161114","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Spread of Zika virus in the Americas","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Klein B, LaRock T, McCabe S, et al. Assessing changes in commuting and individual mobility in major metropolitan areas in the United States during COVID-19 outbreak;. Available from: https://www.mobslab.org/uploads/6/7/8/7/6787877/assessing_mobility_changes_in_the_united_states_during_the_covid_19_outbreak.pdf.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1371/journal.pcbi.1005697","date":"2017-07-25","title":"Projecting social contact matrices in 152 countries using contact surveys and demographic data","abstract":"Heterogeneities in contact networks have a major effect in determining whether a pathogen can become epidemic or persist at endemic levels.\n Epidemic models that determine which interventions can successfully prevent an outbreak need to account for social structure and mixing patterns.\n Contact patterns vary across age and locations (e.\ng.\n home, work, and school), and including them as predictors in transmission dynamic models of pathogens that spread socially will improve the models realism.\n Data from population-based contact diaries in eight European countries from the POLYMOD study were projected to 144 other countries using a Bayesian hierarchical model that estimated the proclivity of age-and-location-specific contact patterns for the countries, using Markov chain Monte Carlo simulation.\n Household level data from the Demographic and Health Surveys for nine lower-income countries and socio-demographic factors from several on-line databases for 152 countries were used to quantify similarity of countries to estimate contact patterns in the home, work, school and other locations for countries for which no contact data are available, accounting for demographic structure, household structure where known, and a variety of metrics including workforce participation and school enrolment.\n Contacts are highly assortative with age across all countries considered, but pronounced regional differences in the age-specific contacts at home were noticeable, with more inter-generational contacts in Asian countries than in other settings.\n Moreover, there were variations in contact patterns by location, with work-place contacts being least assortative.\n These variations led to differences in the effect of social distancing measures in an age structured epidemic model.\n Contacts have an important role in transmission dynamic models that use contact rates to characterize the spread of contact-transmissible diseases.\n This study provides estimates of mixing patterns for societies for which contact data such as POLYMOD are not yet available.\n","id":"PMC5609774","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Public Library of Science","authors":[{"firstname":"Kiesha","surname":"Prem","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Alex R.","surname":"Cook","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Alex R.","surname":"Cook","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Mark","surname":"Jit","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Mark","surname":"Jit","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Betz","surname":"Halloran","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Betz","surname":"Halloran","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Betz","surname":"Halloran","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"NULL","surname":"NULL","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"NULL","surname":"NULL","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"NULL","surname":"NULL","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"NULL","surname":"NULL","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The impact of regular school closure on seasonal influenza epidemics: a data-driven spatial transmission model for Belgium","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The New York Times, &quot;See which states and cities have told their residents to stay at home.&quot;; (2020). https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-stay-at-home-order.html.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1038/s41562-021-01079-8","date":"1970-01-01","title":"A global panel database of pandemic policies (Oxford COVID-19 Government Response Tracker)","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Google LLC. &quot;Google COVID-19 Community Mobility Reports&quot;;. https://www.google.com/covid19/mobility/.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1038/s41591-020-0822-7","date":"2020-03-09","title":"Estimating clinical severity of COVID-19 from the transmission dynamics in Wuhan, China","abstract":"id='Par2'>As of 29 February 2020 there were 79,394 confirmed cases and 2,838 deaths from COVID-19 in mainland China.\n Of these, 48,557 cases and 2,169 deaths occurred in the epicenter, Wuhan.\n A key public health priority during the emergence of a novel pathogen is estimating clinical severity, which requires properly adjusting for the case ascertainment rate and the delay between symptoms onset and death.\n Using public and published information, we estimate that the overall symptomatic case fatality risk (the probability of dying after developing symptoms) of COVID-19 in Wuhan was 1.4% (0.92.1%), which is substantially lower than both the corresponding crude or nave confirmed case fatality risk (2,169/48,557?=?4.5%) and the approximator1 of deaths/deaths?+?recoveries (2,169/2,169?+?17,572?=?11%) as of 29 February 2020. Compared to those aged 3059?years, those aged below 30 and above 59 years were 0.6 (0.31.1) and 5.1 (4.26.1) times more likely to die after developing symptoms.\n The risk of symptomatic infection increased with age (for example, at ~4% per year among adults aged 3060 years).\n","id":"PMC7094929","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Nature Publishing Group US","authors":[{"firstname":"Joseph T.","surname":"Wu","email":"joewu@hku.hk","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Kathy","surname":"Leung","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Kathy","surname":"Leung","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Mary","surname":"Bushman","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Nishant","surname":"Kishore","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Rene","surname":"Niehus","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Pablo M.","surname":"de Salazar","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Benjamin J.","surname":"Cowling","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Marc","surname":"Lipsitch","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Marc","surname":"Lipsitch","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Gabriel M.","surname":"Leung","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]}]},{"doi":"10.1016/S2468-2667(20)30090-6","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Impact assessment of non-pharmaceutical interventions against coronavirus disease 2019 and influenza in Hong Kong: an observational study","abstract":"Background\nA range of public health measures have been implemented to suppress local transmission of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) in Hong Kong.\n\n We examined the effect of these interventions and behavioural changes of the public on the incidence of COVID-19, as well as on influenza virus infections, which might share some aspects of transmission dynamics with COVID-19.\nMethods\nWe analysed data on laboratory-confirmed COVID-19 cases, influenza surveillance data in outpatients of all ages, and influenza hospitalisations in children.\n\n We estimated the daily effective reproduction number (Rt) for COVID-19 and influenza A H1N1 to estimate changes in transmissibility over time.\n\n Attitudes towards COVID-19 and changes in population behaviours were reviewed through three telephone surveys done on Jan 2023, Feb 1114, and March 1013, 2020.\nFindings\nCOVID-19 transmissibility measured by Rt has remained at approximately 1 for 8 weeks in Hong Kong.\n\n Influenza transmission declined substantially after the implementation of social distancing measures and changes in population behaviours in late January, with a 44% (95% CI 3453%) reduction in transmissibility in the community, from an estimated Rt of 128 (95% CI 126130) before the start of the school closures to 072 (070074) during the closure weeks.\n\n Similarly, a 33% (2443%) reduction in transmissibility was seen based on paediatric hospitalisation rates, from an Rt of 110 (106112) before the start of the school closures to 073 (068077) after school closures.\n\n Among respondents to the surveys, 745%, 975%, and 988% reported wearing masks when going out, and 613%, 902%, and 851% reported avoiding crowded places in surveys 1 (n=1008), 2 (n=1000), and 3 (n=1005), respectively.\n\n\nInterpretation\nOur study shows that non-pharmaceutical interventions (including border restrictions, quarantine and isolation, distancing, and changes in population behaviour) were associated with reduced transmission of COVID-19 in Hong Kong, and are also likely to have substantially reduced influenza transmission in early February, 2020.\nFunding\nHealth and Medical Research Fund, Hong Kong.\n\n\n","id":"PMC7164922","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd.","authors":[{"firstname":"Benjamin J","surname":"Cowling","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Sheikh Taslim","surname":"Ali","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Tiffany W Y","surname":"Ng","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Tim K","surname":"Tsang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Julian C M","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Min Whui","surname":"Fong","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Qiuyan","surname":"Liao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Mike YW","surname":"Kwan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"So Lun","surname":"Lee","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Susan S","surname":"Chiu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Joseph T","surname":"Wu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Peng","surname":"Wu","email":"pengwu@hku.hk","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Gabriel M","surname":"Leung","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}],"References depth 2":[{"doi":"10.1016/S0140-6736(20)30746-7","date":"1970-01-01","title":"First-wave COVID-19 transmissibility and severity in China outside Hubei after control measures, and second-wave scenario planning: a modelling impact assessment","abstract":"Background\nAs of March 18, 2020, 13?415 confirmed cases and 120 deaths related to coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) in mainland China, outside Hubei provincethe epicentre of the outbreakhad been reported.\n\n Since late January, massive public health interventions have been implemented nationwide to contain the outbreak.\n\n We provide an impact assessment of the transmissibility and severity of COVID-19 during the first wave in mainland Chinese locations outside Hubei.\n\n\nMethods\nWe estimated the instantaneous reproduction number (Rt) of COVID-19 in Beijing, Shanghai, Shenzhen, Wenzhou, and the ten Chinese provinces that had the highest number of confirmed COVID-19 cases; and the confirmed case-fatality risk (cCFR) in Beijing, Shanghai, Shenzhen, and Wenzhou, and all 31 Chinese provinces.\n\n We used a susceptibleinfectiousrecovered model to show the potential effects of relaxing containment measures after the first wave of infection, in anticipation of a possible second wave.\n\n\nFindings\nIn all selected cities and provinces, the Rt decreased substantially since Jan 23, when control measures were implemented, and have since remained below 1. The cCFR outside Hubei was 098% (95% CI 082116), which was almost five times lower than that in Hubei (591%, 573609).\n\n Relaxing the interventions (resulting in Rt &gt;1) when the epidemic size was still small would increase the cumulative case count exponentially as a function of relaxation duration, even if aggressive interventions could subsequently push disease prevalence back to the baseline level.\n\n\nInterpretation\nThe first wave of COVID-19 outside of Hubei has abated because of aggressive non-pharmaceutical interventions.\n\n However, given the substantial risk of viral reintroduction, particularly from overseas importation, close monitoring of Rt and cCFR is needed to inform strategies against a potential second wave to achieve an optimal balance between health and economic protection.\n\n\nFunding\nHealth and Medical Research Fund, Hong Kong, China.\n\n\n","id":"PMC7195331","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Elsevier Ltd.","authors":[{"firstname":"Kathy","surname":"Leung","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Joseph T","surname":"Wu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Di","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Gabriel M","surname":"Leung","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"To tame coronavirus, Mao-style social control blankets China","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Authoritarianism, outbreaks, and information politics","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Early season estimate of influenza vaccination effectiveness against influenza hospitalisation in children, Hong Kong, winter influenza season 2018/19","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"A tale of two cities: community psychobehavioral surveillance and related impact on outbreak control in Hong Kong and Singapore during the severe acute respiratory syndrome epidemic","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Longitudinal assessment of community psychobehavioral responses during and after the 2003 outbreak of severe acute respiratory syndrome in Hong Kong","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Community psychological and behavioral responses through the first wave of the 2009 influenza A(H1N1) pandemic in Hong Kong","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Responses to threat of influenza A(H7N9) and support for live poultry markets, Hong Kong, 2013","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"EpiEstim: estimate time varying reproduction numbers from epidemic curves","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Improved inference of time-varying reproduction numbers during infectious disease outbreaks","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Early transmission dynamics in Wuhan, China, of novel coronavirus-infected pneumonia","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Improving the estimation of influenza-related mortality over a seasonal baseline","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Infection fatality risk of the pandemic A(H1N1)2009 virus in Hong Kong","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Ambient ozone and influenza transmissibility in Hong Kong","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"A new framework and software to estimate time-varying reproduction numbers during epidemics","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"How generation intervals shape the relationship between growth rates and reproductive numbers","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Some problems in interval estimation","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Inferring influenza infection attack rate from seroprevalence data","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Mitigation of influenza B epidemic with school closures, Hong Kong, 2018","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Effectiveness of control measures during the SARS epidemic in Beijing: a comparison of the Rt curve and the epidemic curve","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Epidemiological research priorities for public health control of the ongoing global novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV) outbreak","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Defining the epidemiology of COVID-19:studies needed","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"SARS-CoV-2 viral load in upper respiratory specimens of infected patients","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]}]},{"doi":"10.1136/bmj.m1923","date":"2020-05-12","title":"Incidence, clinical outcomes, and transmission dynamics of severe coronavirus disease 2019 in California and Washington: prospective cohort study","abstract":"Objective\nTo understand the epidemiology and burden of severe coronavirus disease 2019 (covid-19) during the first epidemic wave on the west coast of the United States.\n\n\nDesign\nProspective cohort study.\n\n\nSetting\nKaiser Permanente integrated healthcare delivery systems serving populations in northern California, southern California, and Washington state.\n\n\nParticipants\n1840 people with a first acute hospital admission for confirmed covid-19 by 22 April 2020, among 9?596?321 healthcare plan enrollees.\n\n Analyses of hospital length of stay and clinical outcomes included 1328 people admitted by 9 April 2020 (534 in northern California, 711 in southern California, and 83 in Washington).\n\n\nMain outcome measures\nCumulative incidence of first acute hospital admission for confirmed covid-19, and subsequent probabilities of admission to an intensive care unit (ICU) and mortality, as well as duration of hospital stay and ICU stay.\n\n The effective reproduction number (RE) describing transmission dynamics was estimated for each region.\n\n\nResults\nAs of 22 April 2020, cumulative incidences of a first acute hospital admission for covid-19 were 15.6 per 100?000 cohort members in northern California, 23.3 per 100?000 in southern California, and 14.7 per 100?000 in Washington.\n\n Accounting for censoring of incomplete hospital stays among those admitted by 9 April 2020, the estimated median duration of stay among survivors was 9.3 days (with 95% staying 0.8 to 32.9 days) and among non-survivors was 12.7 days (1.6 to 37.7 days).\n\n The censoring adjusted probability of ICU admission for male patients was 48.5% (95% confidence interval 41.8% to 56.3%) and for female patients was 32.0% (26.6% to 38.4%).\n\n For patients requiring critical care, the median duration of ICU stay was 10.6 days (with 95% staying 1.3 to 30.8 days).\n\n The censoring adjusted case fatality ratio was 23.5% (95% confidence interval 19.6% to 28.2%) among male inpatients and 14.9% (11.8% to 18.6%) among female inpatients; mortality risk increased with age for both male and female patients.\n\n Reductions in RE were identified over the study period within each region.\n\n\nConclusions\nAmong residents of California and Washington state enrolled in Kaiser Permanente healthcare plans who were admitted to hospital with covid-19, the probabilities of ICU admission, of long hospital stay, and of mortality were identified to be high.\n\n Incidence rates of new hospital admissions have stabilized or declined in conjunction with implementation of social distancing interventions.\n\n\n","id":"PMC7243800","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"BMJ Publishing Group Ltd.","authors":[{"firstname":"Joseph A","surname":"Lewnard","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Vincent X","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Vincent X","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Michael L","surname":"Jackson","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Mark A","surname":"Schmidt","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Britta L","surname":"Jewell","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jean P","surname":"Flores","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Chris","surname":"Jentz","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Graham R","surname":"Northrup","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ayesha","surname":"Mahmud","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Arthur L","surname":"Reingold","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Maya","surname":"Petersen","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Nicholas P","surname":"Jewell","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Scott","surname":"Young","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jim","surname":"Bellows","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Association between automotive assembly plant closures and opioid overdose mortality in the United States: a difference-in-differences analysis","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"10.2105/AJPH.2018.304585","date":"1970-01-01","title":"America's declining well-being, health, and life expectancy: not just a white problem","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"10.1101/2020.04.08.20058248","date":"1970-01-01","title":"U.S. county-level characteristics to inform equitable COVID-19 response","abstract":"Background\nid='P3'>The spread of Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) across the United States confirms that not all Americans are equally at risk of infection, severe disease, or mortality.\n\n A range of intersecting biological, demographic, and socioeconomic factors are likely to determine an individuals susceptibility to COVID-19. These factors vary significantly across counties in the United States, and often reflect the structural inequities in our society.\n\n Recognizing this vast inter-county variation in risks will be critical to mounting an adequate response strategy.\n\n\nMethods and Findings\nid='P4'>Using publicly available county-specific data we identified key biological, demographic, and socioeconomic factors influencing susceptibility to COVID-19, guided by international experiences and consideration of epidemiological parameters of importance.\n\n We created bivariate county-level maps to summarize examples of key relationships across these categories, grouping age and poverty; comorbidities and lack of health insurance; proximity, density and bed capacity; and race and ethnicity, and premature death.\n\n We have also made available an interactive online tool that allows public health officials to query risk factors most relevant to their local context.\n\n\nConclusion\nid='P7'>COVID-19 responses and decision making in the United States remain decentralized.\n\n Both the federal and state governments will benefit from recognizing high intra-state, inter-county variation in population risks and response capacity.\n\n Many of the factors that are likely to exacerbate the burden of COVID-19 and the demand on healthcare systems are the compounded result of long-standing structural inequalities in US society.\n\n Strategies to protect those in the most vulnerable counties will require urgent measures to better support communities attempts at social distancing and to accelerate cooperation across jurisdictions to supply personnel and equipment to counties that will experience high demand.\n\n\n","id":"PMC7276037","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory","authors":[{"firstname":"Taylor","surname":"Chin","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Rebecca","surname":"Kahn","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ruoran","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jarvis T.","surname":"Chen","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Nancy","surname":"Krieger","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Caroline O.","surname":"Buckee","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Satchit","surname":"Balsari","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Mathew V.","surname":"Kiang","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}],"References depth 2":[{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Are Hospitals Near Me Ready for Coronavirus? Here Are Nine Different Scenarios","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Mapping the burden of COVID-","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Early Data Shows African Americans Have Contracted and Died of Coronavirus at an Alarming Rate","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Black Americans Face Alarming Rates of Coronavirus Infection in Some States","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Characteristics of and Important Lessons From the Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) Outbreak in China: Summary of a Report of 72 314 Cases From the Chinese Center for Disease Control and Prevention","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Severe Outcomes Among Patients with Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) : United States, February 12-March 16, 2020","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"This Chart Shows Why The Prison Population Is So Vulnerable to COVID-19","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Prisons And Jails Change Policies To Address Coronavirus Threat Behind Bars","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"During the Covid-19 pandemic, nowhere is safe for homeless people","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Nursing Homes Are Ground Zero for COVID-19 Pandemic","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Health, Income, &amp; Poverty: Where We Are &amp; What Could Help","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Socioeconomic status and the 25 x 25 risk factors as determinants of premature mortality: a multicohort study and meta-analysis of 1-7 million men and women","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Health Justice Strategies To Combat COVID-19: Protecting Vulnerable Communities During A Pandemic","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Location Data Says It All: Staying at Home During Coronavirus Is a Luxury","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"New York City 2009 H1N1 Flu Investigation Team. Pandemic (H1N1)2009 surveillance for severe illness and response, New York, New York, USA, April-July 2009","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Poorer NYC Neighborhoods Are Hit Hardest by Coronavirus","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"A Month of Coronavirus in New York City: See the Hardest-Hit Areas","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Reassessing the Stroke Belt","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Trends and Patterns of Geographic Variation in Cardiovascular Mortality Among US Counties, 1980-2014","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Association Between Insurance Status and Access to Hospital Care in Emergency Department Disposition","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"What Issues WII Uninsured People Face with Testing and Treatment for COVID-19?","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"US jobless claims surge to record 3.3m as America locks down","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Epidemiology and Transmission of COVID-19 in Shenzhen China: Analysis of 391 cases and 1,286 of their close contacts","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Group Quarters Definitions - 2018 ACS 1-year and 2014-2018 ACS 5-year Data Releases: Technical Documentation - Survey ACS 2018 (5-Year Estimates)","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Why New York is the epicenter of the American coronavirus outbreak","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Eight Americas: Investigating Mortality Disparities across Races, Counties, and Race-Counties in the United States","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Vital Signs: Racial Disparities in Age-Specific Mortality Among Blacks or African Americans : United States, 1999-2015","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Opinion | The Racial Time Bomb in the Covid-19 Crisis","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Deaths: Final Data for 2017","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Biological Versus Chronological Aging","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Social Class Differentials in Health and Mortality: Patterns and Explanations in Comparative Perspective","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The Fall and Rise of US Inequities in Premature Mortality: 1960-2002","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Jim Crow and Premature Mortality Among the US Black and White Population, 1960-2009","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Where America Didn't Stay Home Even as the Virus Spread","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The Coronavirus Doesn't Discriminate, But U.S. Health Care Showing Familiar Biases","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Why Don't We Know Who the Coronavirus Victims Are?","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Elizabeth Warren and Ayanna Pressley are calling for racial data on coronavirus tests","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"There are likely more unemployed Americans right now than at any time in history","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Addressing Social Determinants of Health: Time for a Polysocial Risk Score","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Coronavirus in the U.S.: Latest Map and Case Count","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Unequal protection: American inequality meets covid-19. The Economist. 2020 Apr 18.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Authority to reopen U.S. for business in question","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]}]},{"doi":"10.1016/j.tmaid.2020.101654","date":"2020-03-27","title":"Epidemiology of 2019 novel coronavirus in Jiangsu Province, China after wartime control measures: A population-level retrospective study","abstract":"Background\nA novel coronavirus emerged in China in December 2019, and human-to-human transmission was previously identified.\n\n This study aimed to compare the epidemiological characteristics in Jiangsu Province and assess whether so-called wartime control measures changed the trend of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) in the province.\n\n\nMethods\nEpidemiological data were obtained from the websites of China's Bureau of Health and the People's Government of Jiangsu Province and informal online sources from January 22 to February 20, 2020.\nResults\nThe cumulative number of patients in Jiangsu Province (over 79 million people) was 613. The number of daily confirmed new cases reached the inflection point on January 31 with the maximum of 39 cases.\n\n The temporal number of patients peaked from January 29 to February 9. The proportion of confirmed cases who were residents or travelers to Hubei Province was 100.0%58.8% before January 31 and then gradually declined.\n\n The proportion of close contacts increased gradually from January 27 to February 17. The geographical distribution of COVID-2019 cases showed that all 13 cites reported confirmed new cases after only five days of the first confirmed new case in Suzhou.\n\n The cases were concentrated in Nanjing, Suzhou, and Xuzhou with a high population density (over eight million people).\n\n The epidemiological features of COVID-2019 cases in Wuxi, Jiangsu showed that seven confirmed cases were tourists from others areas beyond Hubei Province.\n\n The longest incubation period of COVID-2019 was 19 days based on the onset of laboratory-confirmed cases.\n\n\nConclusion\nThe number of daily confirmed new cases in Jiangsu Province peaked around January 31 and then declined.\n\n This result emphasized that wartime control measures, such as putting cities on lockdown to limit population mobility in Jiangsu Province, resulted in dramatic reductions in COVID-19 cases.\n\n\n","id":"PMC7130124","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"Elsevier Ltd.","authors":[{"firstname":"Ke-wei","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":" Jie","surname":"Gao","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":" Hua","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":" Xiao-long","surname":"Wu","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":" Qin-fang","surname":"Yuan","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":" Fei-yu","surname":"Guo","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":" Zhi-jie","surname":"Zhang","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":" Yang","surname":"Cheng","email":"woerseng@126.com","contributions":"1"}],"Full Text":"Epidemiology of 2019 novel coronavirus in Jiangsu Province, China after wartime control measures: A population-level retrospective study\nBackground\nA novel coronavirus emerged in China in December 2019, and human-to-human transmission was previously identified. This study aimed to compare the epidemiological characteristics in Jiangsu Province and assess whether so-called wartime control measures changed the trend of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) in the province.\nMethods\nEpidemiological data were obtained from the websites of China's Bureau of Health and the People's Government of Jiangsu Province and informal online sources from January 22 to February 20, 2020.\nResults\nThe cumulative number of patients in Jiangsu Province (over 79 million people) was 613. The number of daily confirmed new cases reached the inflection point on January 31 with the maximum of 39 cases. The temporal number of patients peaked from January 29 to February 9. The proportion of confirmed cases who were residents or travelers to Hubei Province was 100.0%-58.8% before January 31 and then gradually declined. The proportion of close contacts increased gradually from January 27 to February 17. The geographical distribution of COVID-2019 cases showed that all 13 cites reported confirmed new cases after only five days of the first confirmed new case in Suzhou. The cases were concentrated in Nanjing, Suzhou, and Xuzhou with a high population density (over eight million people). The epidemiological features of COVID-2019 cases in Wuxi, Jiangsu showed that seven confirmed cases were tourists from others areas beyond Hubei Province. The longest incubation period of COVID-2019 was 19 days based on the onset of laboratory-confirmed cases.\nConclusion\nThe number of daily confirmed new cases in Jiangsu Province peaked around January 31 and then declined. This result emphasized that wartime control measures, such as putting cities on lockdown to limit population mobility in Jiangsu Province, resulted in dramatic reductions in COVID-19 cases.\nIntroduction\nPneumonia cases infected by unexplained new coronavirus were first reported in December 2019 from Wuhan, China. The World Health Organization named this novel coronavirus disease as coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) on February 11, 2020. COVID-19 is similar to severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) and Middle East respiratory syndrome that can cause fever and serious respiratory symptoms, such as cough, wheezing, and dyspnea. This novel coronavirus can quickly spread from person to person and can lead to widespread outbreaks when infected individuals travel to different areas or countries. With the celebration of Chinese New Year from January 24 to January 25, 2020, more than five million people left Wuhan, and some of them were infected with the 2019 novel coronavirus (SARS-Cov-2),. After a rapid increase in the number of new confirmed cases outside Hubei Province, all 31 provinces in mainland China (autonomous regions and municipalities directly under the central government) had reported COVID-19 cases. China was actively responding to the outbreak of the disease and implemented the national security strategy for COVID-19, which turned to so-called wartime control measures, and put cities in Hubei Province on lockdown on January 23, 2020. In other areas outside Hubei Province, the epidemiologic characteristics of COVID-19 were unclear as well as whether wartime control measures were able to control the disease.\nOn January 22, 2020, the first confirmed case of COVID-19 was found in Jiangsu Province. On January 24, 2020, the People's Government of Jiangsu Province initiated wartime control measures for COVID-19. Jiangsu Province reported a total of 631 confirmed cases as of February 18, 2020, but no new cases were reported since then. Jiangsu Province, which is located at 116.60 -121.67  east longitude and 31.01 -34.89  north latitude on the central coast of China, has the nearest distance with 537.2 km from Hubei Province. This study aimed to estimate the effect of wartime control measures by analyzing the incidence trend and epidemic of COVID-19 after early imported cases in Jiangsu Province from Hubei Province. The findings of this study can serve as a standard reference for controlling COVID-19.\nMethods\nWartime control measures\nGovernments at all levels must report the epidemic of COVID-19 to the state council and take measures in epidemic prevention and control.\nCollect, estimate, report and release emergency information every day.\nPut cities with epidemic and cross-provincial epidemic areas on lockdown to limit population mobility.\nRestrict or stop crowd-gathering activities such as fairs, rallies, theater performances and so on. Stoppage, close down, and suspend classes. Closing or encasing public drinking water supplies, food and related articles contaminated by 2019 novel coronavirus. Temporary requisition of housing, vehicles and related facilities and equipment.\nEnforced measures \nStrengthen prevention work, take measures for control COVID-19 such as on-site isolation, on-site observation and on-site treatment for confirmed COVID-19 cases and suspected COVID-19 cases, and take centralized or home-based medical observation for close contacts according to the condition.\nMigrant management \nSet up temporary traffic health quarantine station in traffic stations and ports of entry and exit to conduct quarantine inspection for travelers. All confirmed COVID-19 cases and suspected COVID-19 cases are temporarily isolated, detention for check-up and transferred to institutions designated by local health and family planning departments.\nTraffic health quarantine \nThe residential districts, townships (towns), as well as the neighborhood committees and village committees shall help the administrative departments of public health, medical institutions and other departments collecting and reporting outbreak information, scattering and isolating people, implementing public health measures.\nOn January 24, Jiangsu province officially launched the so-called wartime control measures, known as the first-level response to major public health emergency. As follows: \nSince February 19, no new confirmed cases have been found in Jiangsu,province, China for 6 consecutive days. The People's Government of Jiangsu Province decided to adjust the emergency response level of epidemic prevention and control from so-called wartime control measures (the first-level response) to the second-level response since 24:00 on February 24.\nData collection\nThe time series of observations of COVID-19 cases from January 22 to February 18, 2020 was obtained from the websites of Bureau of Health and the People's Government of Jiangsu Province. The information included the number of confirmed cases, number of suspected cases, gender, and contact history.\nStatistical analysis\nThe dates of illness onset and the geographical locations of COVID-19 cases were plotted. Close contacts were defined as people who did not take effective protection and have been within 1 m of a suspected case or laboratory-confirmed SARS-Cov-2 infection any time from two days before the onset of illness or an asymptomatically infected person any time from two days before sample collection. Confirmed cases referred to laboratory-confirmed cases of SARS-CoV-2 infection. Statistical analyses were conducted with GraphPad Prism 8.0 and ArcGIS 13.0.\nResults\nThe trend of COVID-19 cases\nOccurrence of COVID-19 cases over calendar time in Jiangsu Province.\n(A) Cumulative number of confirmed cases. (B) Number of new confirmed cases and new suspected cases. (C) Day-on-day growth rate of cumulative confirmed cases and cumulative suspected cases. (D) Number of COVID-19 cases who lived or traveled to Hubei Province or were close contacts or others. (E) Proportion of COVID-19 cases who lived or traveled to Hubei Province or were close contacts or others. (E) Number of COVID-19 cases who were male or female.\nFig. 1\nThe cumulative number of confirmed cases gradually increased from one on January 22 to 631 on February 18 (Fig. 1 A). No new confirmed cases were reported after February 18. Since the first confirmed case in Jiangsu Province on January 22, the number of cases had gradually increased to a maximum of 39 cases by January 30 and remained at a stable trend until February 8 (Fig. 1B). Since then, a downward trend was observed, and three, two, and zero cases were reported on February 17, 18, and 19, respectively. The number of suspected cases increased from 36 on January 31 to 45 on February 5 and then declined. A marked drop was observed in the day-on-day growth rate of the total confirmed cases and suspected cases (Fig. 1C).\nProportion of COVID-19 cases\nIn the first five days after the first confirmed case, all reported cases had lived or traveled to Hubei Province (Fig. 1D). The maximum number of confirmed cases who had lived or traveled to Hubei Province peaked and plateaued between January 27 and 31. The number of confirmed cases who were close contacts had a similar trend which peaked on February 1. The proportion of confirmed cases who were residents or travelers to Hubei Province was 100% in five days after the first confirmed case and then gradually declined. However, the proportion of confirmed cases who were close contacts increased gradually with peak at 77.8% in February 16 (Fig. 1E). As of February 18, the number of confirmed COVID-19 cases was 631 without deaths: 49 mild cases, 572 common cases, six severe cases, and four critical cases. Since then, no new case was reported. Moreover, COVID-19 cases were more common in men than in women (Fig. 1F).\nOccurrence of COVID-19 cases over calendar time in Wuxi, Jiangsu Province. (A) Number of COVID-19 cases who lived or traveled to Hubei Province or were close contacts or others by date of illness onset. (B) Number of COVID-19 cases who were male or female by date of illness onset.\nFig. 2\nTo estimate the effect of wartime control measures for COVID-19, we analyzed the COVID-19 epidemic after the first confirmed case from Wuhan in Wuxi. From January 22 to 31, a total of 13 confirmed cases were found, 12 of which were residents or travelers to Hubei Province and one was close contacts (Fig. 2 A). In February, a fast decline in the number of cases who were residents or travelers to Hubei Province was observed, and an increasing number of cases were close contacts. We also found that confirmed cases were travelers from Japan, Shanghai, Xinyang, Nanning, Huai'an, and Yunnan Province. Those from Hubei Province were excluded. Notably, one case was confirmed on February 12 who arrived at Wuxi from Wuhan on January 23. This result showed that COVID-19 had an incubation period of 19 days. As of February 16, the number of cumulative confirmed cases was 55 in Wuxi, China. Since then, no new case was reported. No difference was found between the sexes (male, 27; female, 28) (Fig. 2B).\nGeographical distribution of COVID-2019 cases\nGeographical distribution of confirmed COVID-19 cases over calendar time in Jiangsu Province. (A), (B), (C), (D), (E), and (F) refer to different days in February. (G) Geographical distribution of confirmed COVID-19 cases.\nFig. 3\nOn January 22, the first COVID-2019 case was found in Suzhou. Since then, more cites reported new cases. New cases were reported in six cities on January 23 and in 12 cities on January 31 (Fig. 3 A, B, C, D). In most cities, new cases were found every day, but the number of cases steadily declined. On February 16, nine cases were reported in five cities, and on February 19, no new case was reported in Jiangsu Province (Fig. 3F). Evidently, COVID-2019 cases were concentrated in Nanjing, Suzhou, and Xuzhou with a high population density (over eight million people) (Fig. 3G).\nDiscussion\nOn January 22, the first confirmed COVID-2019 case was reported in Jiangsu Province. This case who returned to Suzhou from Wuhan on January 10 went to a fever clinic for medical treatment and was immediately transferred to designated medical institutions for isolation. The number of new confirmed cases had increased gradually, up to 39 cases on January 31, and then had gradually decreased. Similar trends were found in suspected cases, but the peak appeared on February 6 with 48 suspected cases. The day-on-day growth rate of cumulative confirmed cases and suspected cases showed a downward trend after January 25 and February 3, respectively. This finding presented the latest epidemiology of human infections with SARS-CoV-2 after wartime control measures in areas outside Hubei Province.\nIn Jiangsu Province, of the 613 COVID-2019 cases, 42.6% (n = 269) were residents or travelers to Hubei Province, whereas 38.0% were close contacts. Before January 31, the number of confirmed cases who were residents or travelers to Hubei Province was more than that of close contacts. Since then, new cases per day were primarily composed of close contacts. The remarkably increased number of close contacts with SARS-CoV-2 indicated that people were susceptible to SARS-CoV-2, and person-to-person transmission of the SARS-CoV-2 was important for coordinating current screening and containment strategies. This result indicated that SARS-CoV-2 was transmitted in Jiangsu Province, and the second-generation transmitted cases appeared. The epidemiology of human infections with SARS-CoV-2 in Jiangsu was also found in other areas outside Hubei Province. A few cases were confirmed whether residents or travelers to Hubei Province or close contacts. Finding out whether the cases were infected with SARS-CoV-2 in transportation facility or destination was difficult. Therefore, wartime control measures for COVID-2019, including limited population movements, were coercive but feasible. One reported case on February 6 and another case on February 13 without exposure history to COVID-2019 in Wuxi was feared. This finding suggested that the SARS-CoV-2 might begin to spread in the community, and close communication with one another should be prohibited. However, from February 19 to 27, no new cases were reported in Jiangsu Province. This result further indicated that wartime control measures, including limiting communication with one another implemented in Jiangsu Province, possibly prevented the spread of SARS-CoV-2.\nBased on the spatial and temporal distribution of confirmed COVID-2019 cases in Jiangsu Province, all 13 cities confirmed that new imported cases were reported only four days after the first confirmed case. This result indicated that the people of Jiangsu and the people of Hubei had a frequent contact because of developed modern traffic, which brought certain difficulties in preventing and controlling COVID-199. People who arrived in Jiangsu before the implementation of wartime control measures were gradually diagnosed as suffering from COVID-2019 after the incubation period of COVID-2019. Therefore, a short peak of COVID-2019 appeared in each city. These cases were geographically concentrated in three large cities (Nanjing, Xuzhou, and Suzhou) with a high population density, which can accelerate the spread of SARS-CoV-2 among the people. However, no new case was confirmed on February 19, indicating that the implementation of wartime control measures resulted in reductions in SARS-CoV-2 transmission.\nResearch suggests that the main route of human-to-human transmission of 2019-nCoV is probably through touch and respiratory droplets with an estimated reproductive number (R0) of 2.2 (95% CI 1.4-3.9). Compared to MERS and SARS, SARS-Cov-2 has higher overall human-to-human transmission potential. After the first confirmed case in Hubei province, soon the number of COVID-2019 cases exhibited signs of exponential increase with 78 824 confirmed cases, 2308 suspected cases and 2788 deaths so far. It shows that the outbreak is still an epidemic threat in China. More seriously for China, each city facing a huge increase in people returning from trips after the Chinese Spring Festival vacation may result in recurrence of outbreak, despite wartime control measures have partly prevented the spread of SARS-CoV-2. Therefore, wartime control measures should continue in China. With the development of convenient transport facilities, the intercommunications among countries are more frequent. The epidemic of COVID-2019 has also spread to other countries from China. Billions of people in 23 other countries including the USA, South Korea, Germany, Australia, Japan, Malaysia, Thailand and Singapore have been hugely threatened with the spread of 2019-nCoV. In light of measures introduced by China, limiting travel and trade might be an advisable option.\nOur analyses had several limitations. First, the data were from the website of Bureau of Health and Jiangsu Provincial People's Government, Jiangsu Province, China. Analyzing the transmission network of SARS-CoV-2 among the people was difficult because of the lack of detailed case information. Second, based on the time of diagnosis instead of the time of onset, the time distribution of cases resulted in the effect of time lag on the epidemic of COVID-19 and error of the incubation calculation. This study showed that the number of new COVID-19 cases per day increased at first and then were gradually reduced to zero after the implementation of wartime control measures in Jiangsu Province. However, considerable attention should be paid to the peak of population mobility after the Spring Festival. Concrete information that can influence the epidemic of COVID-19, such as the source and destination of the floating population and the incidence of disease in each area, should be acquired.\nThe number of daily confirmed new cases peaked and then declined over calendar time in Jiangsu Province. After the implementation of wartime control measures, the proportion of confirmed cases who were residents or travelers to Hubei Province gradually declined, whereas that of confirmed cases who were close contacts increased gradually. Finally, no new case was reported. This result emphasized that wartime control measures could inhibit the epidemic of COVID-19.\nFunding\nThis research was funded by The  (81871681), The  (JUFSTR20180101) and The  funded by the  (JUSRP51710A).\nCRediT authorship contribution statement\n Ke-wei Wang: Conceptualization, Writing - original draft. Jie Gao: Methodology. Hua Wang: Software. Xiao-long Wu: Formal analysis. Qin-fang Yuan: Data curation. Fei-yu Guo: Visualization. Zhi-jie Zhang: Supervision. Yang Cheng: Conceptualization, Writing - original draft.\nReferences\nA novel coronavirus outbreak of global health concern\nA novel coronavirus from patients with pneumonia in China, 2019\nGenomic characterization of the 2019 novel human-pathogenic coronavirus isolated from a patient with atypical pneumonia after visiting Wuhan\nClinical features of patients infected with 2019 novel coronavirus in Wuhan, China\nA new coronavirus associated with human respiratory disease in China\nThe press conference on COVID-19 in Hubei\nSix weeks into the 2019 coronavirus disease (COVID-19) outbreak- it is time to consider strategies to impede the emergence of new zoonotic infections\nCOVID-19: fighting panic with information\nA confirmed COVID-19 case in Suzhou was reported by the national health and Health Commission\nPresumed asymptomatic carrier transmission of COVID-19\nEstimated effectiveness of symptom and risk screening to prevent the spread of COVID-19\nNovel coronavirus (2019-nCoV) cases in Hong Kong and implications for further spread\nPotential presymptomatic transmission of SARS-CoV-2, Zhejiang province, China, 2020\nCOVID-19 control in China during mass population movements at New Year\nFacing the COVID-19 outbreak: what should we know and what could we do?\nThe SARS, MERS and novel coronavirus (COVID-19) epidemics, the newest and biggest global health threats: what lessons have we learned?\nPassengers' destinations from China: low risk of novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV) transmission into Africa and South America\nEarly transmission dynamics in Wuhan, China, of novel coronavirus-infected pneumonia\nSevere acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) and corona virus disease-2019 (COVID-19): the epidemic and the challenges\nThe number of confirmed COVID-19 case was reported by the national health and Health Commission\n","References depth 1":[{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"A novel coronavirus outbreak of global health concern","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Novel coronavirus - Thailand (ex-China). Geneva: World Health Organization","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Novel Coronavirus - Japan (ex-China). Geneva: World Health Organization","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Update on the novel coronavirus pneumonia outbreak (Jan 24, 2020). Beijing: China National Health Commission","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Novel coronavirus - Republic of Korea (ex-China). Geneva: World Health Organization","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"First travel-related case of 2019 novel coronavirus detected in United States. Atlanta, GA: US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/S0140-6736(20)30154-9","date":"1970-01-01","title":"A familial cluster of pneumonia associated with the 2019 novel coronavirus indicating person-to-person transmission: a study of a family cluster","abstract":"Background\nAn ongoing outbreak of pneumonia associated with a novel coronavirus was reported in Wuhan city, Hubei province, China.\n\n Affected patients were geographically linked with a local wet market as a potential source.\n\n No data on person-to-person or nosocomial transmission have been published to date.\n\n\nMethods\nIn this study, we report the epidemiological, clinical, laboratory, radiological, and microbiological findings of five patients in a family cluster who presented with unexplained pneumonia after returning to Shenzhen, Guangdong province, China, after a visit to Wuhan, and an additional family member who did not travel to Wuhan.\n\n Phylogenetic analysis of genetic sequences from these patients were done.\n\n\nFindings\nFrom Jan 10, 2020, we enrolled a family of six patients who travelled to Wuhan from Shenzhen between Dec 29, 2019 and Jan 4, 2020. Of six family members who travelled to Wuhan, five were identified as infected with the novel coronavirus.\n\n Additionally, one family member, who did not travel to Wuhan, became infected with the virus after several days of contact with four of the family members.\n\n None of the family members had contacts with Wuhan markets or animals, although two had visited a Wuhan hospital.\n\n Five family members (aged 3666 years) presented with fever, upper or lower respiratory tract symptoms, or diarrhoea, or a combination of these 36 days after exposure.\n\n They presented to our hospital (The University of Hong Kong-Shenzhen Hospital, Shenzhen) 610 days after symptom onset.\n\n They and one asymptomatic child (aged 10 years) had radiological ground-glass lung opacities.\n\n Older patients (aged &gt;60 years) had more systemic symptoms, extensive radiological ground-glass lung changes, lymphopenia, thrombocytopenia, and increased C-reactive protein and lactate dehydrogenase levels.\n\n The nasopharyngeal or throat swabs of these six patients were negative for known respiratory microbes by point-of-care multiplex RT-PCR, but five patients (four adults and the child) were RT-PCR positive for genes encoding the internal RNA-dependent RNA polymerase and surface Spike protein of this novel coronavirus, which were confirmed by Sanger sequencing.\n\n Phylogenetic analysis of these five patients' RT-PCR amplicons and two full genomes by next-generation sequencing showed that this is a novel coronavirus, which is closest to the bat severe acute respiatory syndrome (SARS)-related coronaviruses found in Chinese horseshoe bats.\n\n\nInterpretation\nOur findings are consistent with person-to-person transmission of this novel coronavirus in hospital and family settings, and the reports of infected travellers in other geographical regions.\n\n\nFunding\nThe Shaw Foundation Hong Kong, Michael Seak-Kan Tong, Respiratory Viral Research Foundation Limited, Hui Ming, Hui Hoy and Chow Sin Lan Charity Fund Limited, Marina Man-Wai Lee, the Hong Kong Hainan Commercial Association South China Microbiology Research Fund, Sanming Project of Medicine (Shenzhen), and High Level-Hospital Program (Guangdong Health Commission).\n\n\n","id":"PMC7159286","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Elsevier Ltd.","authors":[{"firstname":"Jasper Fuk-Woo","surname":"Chan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Shuofeng","surname":"Yuan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Kin-Hang","surname":"Kok","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Kelvin Kai-Wang","surname":"To","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hin","surname":"Chu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jin","surname":"Yang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Fanfan","surname":"Xing","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jieling","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Cyril Chik-Yan","surname":"Yip","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Rosana Wing-Shan","surname":"Poon","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hoi-Wah","surname":"Tsoi","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Simon Kam-Fai","surname":"Lo","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Kwok-Hung","surname":"Chan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Vincent Kwok-Man","surname":"Poon","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Wan-Mui","surname":"Chan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jonathan Daniel","surname":"Ip","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jian-Piao","surname":"Cai","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Vincent Chi-Chung","surname":"Cheng","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Honglin","surname":"Chen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Christopher Kim-Ming","surname":"Hui","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Kwok-Yung","surname":"Yuen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1016/S0140-6736(20)30183-5","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Clinical features of patients infected with 2019 novel coronavirus in Wuhan, China","abstract":"Background\nA recent cluster of pneumonia cases in Wuhan, China, was caused by a novel betacoronavirus, the 2019 novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV).\n\n We report the epidemiological, clinical, laboratory, and radiological characteristics and treatment and clinical outcomes of these patients.\n\n\nMethods\nAll patients with suspected 2019-nCoV were admitted to a designated hospital in Wuhan.\n\n We prospectively collected and analysed data on patients with laboratory-confirmed 2019-nCoV infection by real-time RT-PCR and next-generation sequencing.\n\n Data were obtained with standardised data collection forms shared by WHO and the International Severe Acute Respiratory and Emerging Infection Consortium from electronic medical records.\n\n Researchers also directly communicated with patients or their families to ascertain epidemiological and symptom data.\n\n Outcomes were also compared between patients who had been admitted to the intensive care unit (ICU) and those who had not.\n\n\nFindings\nBy Jan 2, 2020, 41 admitted hospital patients had been identified as having laboratory-confirmed 2019-nCoV infection.\n\n Most of the infected patients were men (30 [73%] of 41); less than half had underlying diseases (13 [32%]), including diabetes (eight [20%]), hypertension (six [15%]), and cardiovascular disease (six [15%]).\n\n Median age was 490 years (IQR 410580).\n\n 27 (66%) of 41 patients had been exposed to Huanan seafood market.\n\n One family cluster was found.\n\n Common symptoms at onset of illness were fever (40 [98%] of 41 patients), cough (31 [76%]), and myalgia or fatigue (18 [44%]); less common symptoms were sputum production (11 [28%] of 39), headache (three [8%] of 38), haemoptysis (two [5%] of 39), and diarrhoea (one [3%] of 38).\n\n Dyspnoea developed in 22 (55%) of 40 patients (median time from illness onset to dyspnoea 80 days [IQR 50130]).\n\n 26 (63%) of 41 patients had lymphopenia.\n\n All 41 patients had pneumonia with abnormal findings on chest CT.\n\n Complications included acute respiratory distress syndrome (12 [29%]), RNAaemia (six [15%]), acute cardiac injury (five [12%]) and secondary infection (four [10%]).\n\n 13 (32%) patients were admitted to an ICU and six (15%) died.\n\n Compared with non-ICU patients, ICU patients had higher plasma levels of IL2, IL7, IL10, GSCF, IP10, MCP1, MIP1A, and TNF?.\n\n\nInterpretation\nThe 2019-nCoV infection caused clusters of severe respiratory illness similar to severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus and was associated with ICU admission and high mortality.\n\n Major gaps in our knowledge of the origin, epidemiology, duration of human transmission, and clinical spectrum of disease need fulfilment by future studies.\n\n\nFunding\nMinistry of Science and Technology, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences, National Natural Science Foundation of China, and Beijing Municipal Science and Technology Commission.\n\n\n","id":"PMC7159299","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Elsevier Ltd.","authors":[{"firstname":"Chaolin","surname":"Huang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yeming","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xingwang","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Lili","surname":"Ren","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jianping","surname":"Zhao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yi","surname":"Hu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Li","surname":"Zhang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Guohui","surname":"Fan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jiuyang","surname":"Xu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xiaoying","surname":"Gu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zhenshun","surname":"Cheng","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ting","surname":"Yu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jiaan","surname":"Xia","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yuan","surname":"Wei","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Wenjuan","surname":"Wu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xuelei","surname":"Xie","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Wen","surname":"Yin","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hui","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Min","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yan","surname":"Xiao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hong","surname":"Gao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Li","surname":"Guo","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jungang","surname":"Xie","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Guangfa","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Rongmeng","surname":"Jiang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zhancheng","surname":"Gao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Qi","surname":"Jin","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jianwei","surname":"Wang","email":"wangjw28@163.com","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Bin","surname":"Cao","email":"caobin_ben@163.com","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The epidemiology of severe acute respiratory syndrome in the 2003 Hong Kong epidemic: an analysis of all 1755 patients","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV) situation report - 2 (22 January 2020). Geneva: World Health Organization","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus (MERS-CoV). Geneva: World Health Organization","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Epidemiological, demographic, and clinical characteristics of 47 cases of Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus disease from Saudi Arabia: a descriptive study","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Summary of probable SARS cases with onset of illness from 1 November 2002 to 31 July 2003. Geneva: World Health Organization","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Age- and sex-specific mortality associated with the 1918-1919 influenza pandemic in Kentucky","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Epidemiology and cause of severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) in Guangdong, People's Republic of China, in February, 2003","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Statement on the meeting of the International Health Regulations (2005) Emergency Committee regarding the outbreak of novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV). Geneva, World Health Organization","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Announcement from the Headquarter for novel coronavirus pneumonia prevention and control (No 1). Beijing: China National Health Commission","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Clinical management of severe acute respiratory infection when novel coronavirus (nCoV) infection is suspected. Geneva, World Health Organization","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"A novel coronavirus from patients with pneumonia in China, 2019","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[{"doi":"10.1016/S0140-6736(20)30183-5","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Clinical features of patients infected with 2019 novel coronavirus in Wuhan, China","abstract":"Background\nA recent cluster of pneumonia cases in Wuhan, China, was caused by a novel betacoronavirus, the 2019 novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV).\n\n We report the epidemiological, clinical, laboratory, and radiological characteristics and treatment and clinical outcomes of these patients.\n\n\nMethods\nAll patients with suspected 2019-nCoV were admitted to a designated hospital in Wuhan.\n\n We prospectively collected and analysed data on patients with laboratory-confirmed 2019-nCoV infection by real-time RT-PCR and next-generation sequencing.\n\n Data were obtained with standardised data collection forms shared by WHO and the International Severe Acute Respiratory and Emerging Infection Consortium from electronic medical records.\n\n Researchers also directly communicated with patients or their families to ascertain epidemiological and symptom data.\n\n Outcomes were also compared between patients who had been admitted to the intensive care unit (ICU) and those who had not.\n\n\nFindings\nBy Jan 2, 2020, 41 admitted hospital patients had been identified as having laboratory-confirmed 2019-nCoV infection.\n\n Most of the infected patients were men (30 [73%] of 41); less than half had underlying diseases (13 [32%]), including diabetes (eight [20%]), hypertension (six [15%]), and cardiovascular disease (six [15%]).\n\n Median age was 490 years (IQR 410580).\n\n 27 (66%) of 41 patients had been exposed to Huanan seafood market.\n\n One family cluster was found.\n\n Common symptoms at onset of illness were fever (40 [98%] of 41 patients), cough (31 [76%]), and myalgia or fatigue (18 [44%]); less common symptoms were sputum production (11 [28%] of 39), headache (three [8%] of 38), haemoptysis (two [5%] of 39), and diarrhoea (one [3%] of 38).\n\n Dyspnoea developed in 22 (55%) of 40 patients (median time from illness onset to dyspnoea 80 days [IQR 50130]).\n\n 26 (63%) of 41 patients had lymphopenia.\n\n All 41 patients had pneumonia with abnormal findings on chest CT.\n\n Complications included acute respiratory distress syndrome (12 [29%]), RNAaemia (six [15%]), acute cardiac injury (five [12%]) and secondary infection (four [10%]).\n\n 13 (32%) patients were admitted to an ICU and six (15%) died.\n\n Compared with non-ICU patients, ICU patients had higher plasma levels of IL2, IL7, IL10, GSCF, IP10, MCP1, MIP1A, and TNF?.\n\n\nInterpretation\nThe 2019-nCoV infection caused clusters of severe respiratory illness similar to severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus and was associated with ICU admission and high mortality.\n\n Major gaps in our knowledge of the origin, epidemiology, duration of human transmission, and clinical spectrum of disease need fulfilment by future studies.\n\n\nFunding\nMinistry of Science and Technology, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences, National Natural Science Foundation of China, and Beijing Municipal Science and Technology Commission.\n\n\n","id":"PMC7159299","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Elsevier Ltd.","authors":[{"firstname":"Chaolin","surname":"Huang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yeming","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xingwang","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Lili","surname":"Ren","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jianping","surname":"Zhao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yi","surname":"Hu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Li","surname":"Zhang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Guohui","surname":"Fan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jiuyang","surname":"Xu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xiaoying","surname":"Gu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zhenshun","surname":"Cheng","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ting","surname":"Yu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jiaan","surname":"Xia","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yuan","surname":"Wei","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Wenjuan","surname":"Wu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xuelei","surname":"Xie","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Wen","surname":"Yin","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hui","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Min","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yan","surname":"Xiao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hong","surname":"Gao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Li","surname":"Guo","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jungang","surname":"Xie","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Guangfa","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Rongmeng","surname":"Jiang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zhancheng","surname":"Gao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Qi","surname":"Jin","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jianwei","surname":"Wang","email":"wangjw28@163.com","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Bin","surname":"Cao","email":"caobin_ben@163.com","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1016/S0140-6736(20)30154-9","date":"1970-01-01","title":"A familial cluster of pneumonia associated with the 2019 novel coronavirus indicating person-to-person transmission: a study of a family cluster","abstract":"Background\nAn ongoing outbreak of pneumonia associated with a novel coronavirus was reported in Wuhan city, Hubei province, China.\n\n Affected patients were geographically linked with a local wet market as a potential source.\n\n No data on person-to-person or nosocomial transmission have been published to date.\n\n\nMethods\nIn this study, we report the epidemiological, clinical, laboratory, radiological, and microbiological findings of five patients in a family cluster who presented with unexplained pneumonia after returning to Shenzhen, Guangdong province, China, after a visit to Wuhan, and an additional family member who did not travel to Wuhan.\n\n Phylogenetic analysis of genetic sequences from these patients were done.\n\n\nFindings\nFrom Jan 10, 2020, we enrolled a family of six patients who travelled to Wuhan from Shenzhen between Dec 29, 2019 and Jan 4, 2020. Of six family members who travelled to Wuhan, five were identified as infected with the novel coronavirus.\n\n Additionally, one family member, who did not travel to Wuhan, became infected with the virus after several days of contact with four of the family members.\n\n None of the family members had contacts with Wuhan markets or animals, although two had visited a Wuhan hospital.\n\n Five family members (aged 3666 years) presented with fever, upper or lower respiratory tract symptoms, or diarrhoea, or a combination of these 36 days after exposure.\n\n They presented to our hospital (The University of Hong Kong-Shenzhen Hospital, Shenzhen) 610 days after symptom onset.\n\n They and one asymptomatic child (aged 10 years) had radiological ground-glass lung opacities.\n\n Older patients (aged &gt;60 years) had more systemic symptoms, extensive radiological ground-glass lung changes, lymphopenia, thrombocytopenia, and increased C-reactive protein and lactate dehydrogenase levels.\n\n The nasopharyngeal or throat swabs of these six patients were negative for known respiratory microbes by point-of-care multiplex RT-PCR, but five patients (four adults and the child) were RT-PCR positive for genes encoding the internal RNA-dependent RNA polymerase and surface Spike protein of this novel coronavirus, which were confirmed by Sanger sequencing.\n\n Phylogenetic analysis of these five patients' RT-PCR amplicons and two full genomes by next-generation sequencing showed that this is a novel coronavirus, which is closest to the bat severe acute respiatory syndrome (SARS)-related coronaviruses found in Chinese horseshoe bats.\n\n\nInterpretation\nOur findings are consistent with person-to-person transmission of this novel coronavirus in hospital and family settings, and the reports of infected travellers in other geographical regions.\n\n\nFunding\nThe Shaw Foundation Hong Kong, Michael Seak-Kan Tong, Respiratory Viral Research Foundation Limited, Hui Ming, Hui Hoy and Chow Sin Lan Charity Fund Limited, Marina Man-Wai Lee, the Hong Kong Hainan Commercial Association South China Microbiology Research Fund, Sanming Project of Medicine (Shenzhen), and High Level-Hospital Program (Guangdong Health Commission).\n\n\n","id":"PMC7159286","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Elsevier Ltd.","authors":[{"firstname":"Jasper Fuk-Woo","surname":"Chan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Shuofeng","surname":"Yuan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Kin-Hang","surname":"Kok","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Kelvin Kai-Wang","surname":"To","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hin","surname":"Chu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jin","surname":"Yang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Fanfan","surname":"Xing","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jieling","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Cyril Chik-Yan","surname":"Yip","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Rosana Wing-Shan","surname":"Poon","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hoi-Wah","surname":"Tsoi","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Simon Kam-Fai","surname":"Lo","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Kwok-Hung","surname":"Chan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Vincent Kwok-Man","surname":"Poon","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Wan-Mui","surname":"Chan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jonathan Daniel","surname":"Ip","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jian-Piao","surname":"Cai","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Vincent Chi-Chung","surname":"Cheng","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Honglin","surname":"Chen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Christopher Kim-Ming","surname":"Hui","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Kwok-Yung","surname":"Yuen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1016/S0140-6736(20)30211-7","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Epidemiological and clinical characteristics of 99 cases of 2019 novel coronavirus pneumonia in Wuhan, China: a descriptive study","abstract":"Background\nIn December, 2019, a pneumonia associated with the 2019 novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV) emerged in Wuhan, China.\n\n We aimed to further clarify the epidemiological and clinical characteristics of 2019-nCoV pneumonia.\n\n\nMethods\nIn this retrospective, single-centre study, we included all confirmed cases of 2019-nCoV in Wuhan Jinyintan Hospital from Jan 1 to Jan 20, 2020. Cases were confirmed by real-time RT-PCR and were analysed for epidemiological, demographic, clinical, and radiological features and laboratory data.\n\n Outcomes were followed up until Jan 25, 2020.\nFindings\nOf the 99 patients with 2019-nCoV pneumonia, 49 (49%) had a history of exposure to the Huanan seafood market.\n\n The average age of the patients was 555 years (SD 131), including 67 men and 32 women.\n\n 2019-nCoV was detected in all patients by real-time RT-PCR.\n\n 50 (51%) patients had chronic diseases.\n\n Patients had clinical manifestations of fever (82 [83%] patients), cough (81 [82%] patients), shortness of breath (31 [31%] patients), muscle ache (11 [11%] patients), confusion (nine [9%] patients), headache (eight [8%] patients), sore throat (five [5%] patients), rhinorrhoea (four [4%] patients), chest pain (two [2%] patients), diarrhoea (two [2%] patients), and nausea and vomiting (one [1%] patient).\n\n According to imaging examination, 74 (75%) patients showed bilateral pneumonia, 14 (14%) patients showed multiple mottling and ground-glass opacity, and one (1%) patient had pneumothorax.\n\n 17 (17%) patients developed acute respiratory distress syndrome and, among them, 11 (11%) patients worsened in a short period of time and died of multiple organ failure.\n\n\nInterpretation\nThe 2019-nCoV infection was of clustering onset, is more likely to affect older males with comorbidities, and can result in severe and even fatal respiratory diseases such as acute respiratory distress syndrome.\n\n In general, characteristics of patients who died were in line with the MuLBSTA score, an early warning model for predicting mortality in viral pneumonia.\n\n Further investigation is needed to explore the applicability of the MuLBSTA score in predicting the risk of mortality in 2019-nCoV infection.\n\n\nFunding\nNational Key R&amp;D Program of China.\n\n\n","id":"PMC7135076","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Elsevier Ltd.","authors":[{"firstname":"Nanshan","surname":"Chen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Min","surname":"Zhou","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xuan","surname":"Dong","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jieming","surname":"Qu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Fengyun","surname":"Gong","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yang","surname":"Han","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yang","surname":"Qiu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jingli","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ying","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yuan","surname":"Wei","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jia'an","surname":"Xia","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ting","surname":"Yu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xinxin","surname":"Zhang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Li","surname":"Zhang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1056/NEJMoa2001017","date":"1970-01-01","title":"A Novel Coronavirus from Patients with Pneumonia in China, 2019","abstract":"In December 2019, a cluster of patients with pneumonia of unknown cause was linked to a seafood wholesale market in Wuhan, China.\n A previously unknown betacoronavirus was discovered through the use of unbiased sequencing in samples from patients with pneumonia.\n Human airway epithelial cells were used to isolate a novel coronavirus, named 2019-nCoV, which formed a clade within the subgenus sarbecovirus, Orthocoronavirinae subfamily.\n Different from both MERS-CoV and SARS-CoV, 2019-nCoV is the seventh member of the family of coronaviruses that infect humans.\n Enhanced surveillance and further investigation are ongoing.\n (Funded by the National Key Research and Development Program of China and the National Major Project for Control and Prevention of Infectious Disease in China.\n)","id":"PMC7092803","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Massachusetts Medical Society","authors":[{"firstname":"Na","surname":"Zhu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Dingyu","surname":"Zhang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Wenling","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xingwang","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Bo","surname":"Yang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jingdong","surname":"Song","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xiang","surname":"Zhao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Baoying","surname":"Huang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Weifeng","surname":"Shi","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Roujian","surname":"Lu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Peihua","surname":"Niu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Faxian","surname":"Zhan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xuejun","surname":"Ma","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Dayan","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Wenbo","surname":"Xu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Guizhen","surname":"Wu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"George F.","surname":"Gao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Wenjie","surname":"Tan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1038/srep17155","date":"2015-10-26","title":"Inferring the hosts of coronavirus using dual statistical models based on nucleotide\ncomposition","abstract":"Many coronaviruses are capable of interspecies transmission.\n Some of them have caused\nworldwide panic as emerging human pathogens in recent years, e.\ng.\n, severe acute\nrespiratory syndrome coronavirus (SARS-CoV) and Middle East respiratory syndrome\ncoronavirus (MERS-CoV).\n In order to assess their threat to humans, we explored to\ninfer the potential hosts of coronaviruses using a dual-model approach based on\nnineteen parameters computed from spike genes of coronaviruses.\n Both the support\nvector machine (SVM) model and the Mahalanobis distance (MD) discriminant model\nachieved high accuracies in leave-one-out cross-validation of training data\nconsisting of 730 representative coronaviruses (99.86% and 98.08% respectively).\n\nPredictions on 47 additional coronaviruses precisely conformed to conclusions or\nspeculations by other researchers.\n Our approach is implemented as a web server that\ncan be accessed at http://bioinfo.\nihb.\nac.\ncn/seq2hosts.\n","id":"PMC4660426","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Nature Publishing Group","authors":[{"firstname":"Qin","surname":"Tang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yulong","surname":"Song","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Mijuan","surname":"Shi","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yingyin","surname":"Cheng","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Wanting","surname":"Zhang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xiao-Qin","surname":"Xia","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1056/NEJMc2001272","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Importation and Human-to-Human Transmission of a Novel Coronavirus in Vietnam","abstract":"","id":"PMC7121428","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Massachusetts Medical Society","authors":[{"firstname":"Lan T.","surname":"Phan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Thuong V.","surname":"Nguyen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Quang C.","surname":"Luong","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Thinh V.","surname":"Nguyen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hieu T.","surname":"Nguyen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hung Q.","surname":"Le","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hung Q.","surname":"Le","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Thuc T.","surname":"Nguyen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Thang M.","surname":"Cao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Thang M.","surname":"Cao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Quang D.","surname":"Pham","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1016/j.jgar.2020.02.021","date":"2020-02-21","title":"2019 novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV) outbreak: A new challenge","abstract":"\n\n\n\nIn December 2019, a novel Betacoronavirus (2019-nCoV; SARS-CoV-2) was recognised and has rapidly spread across continents.\n","id":"PMC7102618","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Published by Elsevier Ltd on behalf of International Society for Antimicrobial Chemotherapy.","authors":[{"firstname":"Tommaso","surname":"Lupia","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Silvia","surname":"Scabini","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Simone","surname":"Mornese Pinna","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Giovanni","surname":"Di Perri","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Francesco Giuseppe","surname":"De Rosa","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Silvia","surname":"Corcione","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1001/jama.2020.1585","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Clinical Characteristics of 138 Hospitalized Patients With 2019 Novel Coronavirus-Infected Pneumonia in Wuhan","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1097/CM9.0000000000000722","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Identification of a novel coronavirus causing severe pneumonia in human: a descriptive study","abstract":"Background\nHuman infections with zoonotic coronaviruses (CoVs), including severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS)-CoV and Middle East respiratory syndrome (MERS)-CoV, have raised great public health concern globally.\n\n Here, we report a novel bat-origin CoV causing severe and fatal pneumonia in humans.\n\n\nMethods\nWe collected clinical data and bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) specimens from five patients with severe pneumonia from Wuhan Jinyintan Hospital, Hubei province, China.\n\n Nucleic acids of the BAL were extracted and subjected to next-generation sequencing.\n\n Virus isolation was carried out, and maximum-likelihood phylogenetic trees were constructed.\n\n\nResults\nFive patients hospitalized from December 18 to December 29, 2019 presented with fever, cough, and dyspnea accompanied by complications of acute respiratory distress syndrome.\n\n Chest radiography revealed diffuse opacities and consolidation.\n\n One of these patients died.\n\n Sequence results revealed the presence of a previously unknown ?-CoV strain in all five patients, with 99.8% to 99.9% nucleotide identities among the isolates.\n\n These isolates showed 79.0% nucleotide identity with the sequence of SARS-CoV (GenBank NC_004718) and 51.8% identity with the sequence of MERS-CoV (GenBank NC_019843).\n\n The virus is phylogenetically closest to a bat SARS-like CoV (SL-ZC45, GenBank MG772933) with 87.6% to 87.7% nucleotide identity, but is in a separate clade.\n\n Moreover, these viruses have a single intact open reading frame gene 8, as a further indicator of bat-origin CoVs.\n\n However, the amino acid sequence of the tentative receptor-binding domain resembles that of SARS-CoV, indicating that these viruses might use the same receptor.\n\n\nConclusion\nA novel bat-borne CoV was identified that is associated with severe and fatal respiratory disease in humans.\n\n\n","id":"PMC7147275","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Wolters Kluwer Health","authors":[{"firstname":"Li-Li","surname":"Ren","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ye-Ming","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zhi-Qiang","surname":"Wu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zi-Chun","surname":"Xiang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Li","surname":"Guo","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Teng","surname":"Xu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yong-Zhong","surname":"Jiang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yan","surname":"Xiong","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yong-Jun","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xing-Wang","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hui","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Guo-Hui","surname":"Fan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xiao-Ying","surname":"Gu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yan","surname":"Xiao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hong","surname":"Gao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jiu-Yang","surname":"Xu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Fan","surname":"Yang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xin-Ming","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Chao","surname":"Wu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Lan","surname":"Chen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yi-Wei","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Bo","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jian","surname":"Yang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xiao-Rui","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jie","surname":"Dong","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Li","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Chao-Lin","surname":"Huang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jian-Ping","surname":"Zhao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yi","surname":"Hu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zhen-Shun","surname":"Cheng","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Lin-Lin","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zhao-Hui","surname":"Qian","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Chuan","surname":"Qin","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Qi","surname":"Jin","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Bin","surname":"Cao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jian-Wei","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xiu-Yuan","surname":"Hao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xiu-Yuan","surname":"Hao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Pei-Fang","surname":"Wei","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1038/s41586-020-2008-3","date":"2020-01-28","title":"A new coronavirus associated with human respiratory disease in China","abstract":"id='Par1'>Emerging infectious diseases, such as severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) and Zika virus disease, present a major threat to public health13.\n Despite intense research efforts, how, when and where new diseases appear are still a source of considerable uncertainty.\n A severe respiratory disease was recently reported in Wuhan, Hubei province, China.\n As of 25 January 2020, at least 1,975cases had been reported since the first patient was hospitalized on 12 December 2019. Epidemiological investigations have suggested that the outbreak was associated with a seafood market in Wuhan.\n Here we study a single patient who was a worker at the market and who was admitted to the Central Hospital of Wuhan on 26 December 2019 while experiencing a severe respiratory syndrome that included fever, dizziness and a cough.\n Metagenomic RNA sequencing4 of a sample of bronchoalveolar lavage fluid from the patient identified a new RNA virus strain from the family Coronaviridae, which is designated here WH-Human 1 coronavirus (and has also been referred to as 2019-nCoV).\n Phylogenetic analysis of the complete viral genome (29,903nucleotides) revealed that the virus was most closely related (89.1% nucleotide similarity) to a group of SARS-like coronaviruses (genus Betacoronavirus, subgenus Sarbecovirus) that had previously been found in bats in China5.\n This outbreak highlights the ongoing ability of viral spill-over from animals to cause severe disease in humans.\n","id":"PMC7094943","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Nature Publishing Group UK","authors":[{"firstname":"Fan","surname":"Wu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Su","surname":"Zhao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Bin","surname":"Yu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yan-Mei","surname":"Chen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Wen","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zhi-Gang","surname":"Song","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yi","surname":"Hu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zhao-Wu","surname":"Tao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zhao-Wu","surname":"Tao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jun-Hua","surname":"Tian","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yuan-Yuan","surname":"Pei","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ming-Li","surname":"Yuan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yu-Ling","surname":"Zhang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Fa-Hui","surname":"Dai","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yi","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Qi-Min","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jiao-Jiao","surname":"Zheng","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Lin","surname":"Xu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Edward C.","surname":"Holmes","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yong-Zhen","surname":"Zhang","email":"zhangyongzhen@shphc.org.cn","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yong-Zhen","surname":"Zhang","email":"zhangyongzhen@shphc.org.cn","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1016/j.micinf.2020.01.003","date":"2020-01-24","title":"Measures for diagnosing and treating infections by a novel coronavirus responsible for a pneumonia outbreak originating in Wuhan, China","abstract":"On 10 January 2020, a new coronavirus causing a pneumonia outbreak in Wuhan City in central China was denoted as 2019-nCoV by the World Health Organization (WHO).\n As of 24 January 2020, there were 887 confirmed cases of 2019-nCoV infection, including 26 deaths, reported in China and other countries.\n Therefore, combating this new virus and stopping the epidemic is a matter of urgency.\n Here, we focus on advances in research and development of fast diagnosis methods, as well as potential prophylactics and therapeutics to prevent or treat 2019-nCoV infection.\n","id":"PMC7102556","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Institut Pasteur. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.","authors":[{"firstname":"Fei","surname":"Yu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Lanying","surname":"Du","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"David M.","surname":"Ojcius","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Chungen","surname":"Pan","email":"chungenp@163.com","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Shibo","surname":"Jiang","email":"shibojiang@fudan.edu.cn","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1164/rccm.2014P7","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Novel Wuhan (2019-nCoV) coronavirus","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1128/JVI.78.15.7863-7866.2004","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus phylogeny: toward consensus","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Diagnosis and treatment of new coronavirus pneumonia (trial version 7) [J / OL]. Tianjin J Tradit Chin Med. 2020;1-5. http://kns.cnki.net/kcms/detail/12.1349.R.20200304.1638.006.html. Accessed 3 June 2020.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.21037/apm-20-1272","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Clinical outcome of standardized oxygen therapy nursing strategy in COVID-19","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/S1473-3099(20)30086-4","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Radiological findings from 81 patients with COVID-19 pneumonia in Wuhan, China: a descriptive study","abstract":"Background\nA cluster of patients with coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pneumonia caused by infection with severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) were successively reported in Wuhan, China.\n\n We aimed to describe the CT findings across different timepoints throughout the disease course.\n\n\nMethods\nPatients with COVID-19 pneumonia (confirmed by next-generation sequencing or RT-PCR) who were admitted to one of two hospitals in Wuhan and who underwent serial chest CT scans were retrospectively enrolled.\n\n Patients were grouped on the basis of the interval between symptom onset and the first CT scan: group 1 (subclinical patients; scans done before symptom onset), group 2 (scans done ?1 week after symptom onset), group 3 (&gt;1 week to 2 weeks), and group 4 (&gt;2 weeks to 3 weeks).\n\n Imaging features and their distribution were analysed and compared across the four groups.\n\n\nFindings\n81 patients admitted to hospital between Dec 20, 2019, and Jan 23, 2020, were retrospectively enrolled.\n\n The cohort included 42 (52%) men and 39 (48%) women, and the mean age was 495 years (SD 110).\n\n The mean number of involved lung segments was 105 (SD 64) overall, 28 (33) in group 1, 111 (54) in group 2, 130 (57) in group 3, and 121 (59) in group 4. The predominant pattern of abnormality observed was bilateral (64 [79%] patients), peripheral (44 [54%]), ill-defined (66 [81%]), and ground-glass opacification (53 [65%]), mainly involving the right lower lobes (225 [27%] of 849 affected segments).\n\n In group 1 (n=15), the predominant pattern was unilateral (nine [60%]) and multifocal (eight [53%]) ground-glass opacities (14 [93%]).\n\n Lesions quickly evolved to bilateral (19 [90%]), diffuse (11 [52%]) ground-glass opacity predominance (17 [81%]) in group 2 (n=21).\n\n Thereafter, the prevalence of ground-glass opacities continued to decrease (17 [57%] of 30 patients in group 3, and five [33%] of 15 in group 4), and consolidation and mixed patterns became more frequent (12 [40%] in group 3, eight [53%] in group 4).\n\n\nInterpretation\nCOVID-19 pneumonia manifests with chest CT imaging abnormalities, even in asymptomatic patients, with rapid evolution from focal unilateral to diffuse bilateral ground-glass opacities that progressed to or co-existed with consolidations within 13 weeks.\n\n Combining assessment of imaging features with clinical and laboratory findings could facilitate early diagnosis of COVID-19 pneumonia.\n\n\nFunding\nNone.\n\n\n","id":"PMC7159053","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Elsevier Ltd.","authors":[{"firstname":"Heshui","surname":"Shi","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xiaoyu","surname":"Han","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Nanchuan","surname":"Jiang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yukun","surname":"Cao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Osamah","surname":"Alwalid","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jin","surname":"Gu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yanqing","surname":"Fan","email":"1024932023@qq.com","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Chuansheng","surname":"Zheng","email":"hqzcsxh@sina.com","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1007/s11427-020-1637-5","date":"2020-01-20","title":"Evolution of the novel coronavirus from the ongoing Wuhan outbreak and modeling of its spike protein for risk of human transmission","abstract":"","id":"PMC7089049","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Science China Press","authors":[{"firstname":"Xintian","surname":"Xu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ping","surname":"Chen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jingfang","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jiannan","surname":"Feng","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hui","surname":"Zhou","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xuan","surname":"Li","email":"lixuan@sippe.ac.cn","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Wu","surname":"Zhong","email":"zhongwu@bmi.ac.cn","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Pei","surname":"Hao","email":"phao@ips.ac.cn","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1007/s00018-004-4242-5","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Whats new in the renin-angiotensin system?","abstract":"Cellular entry of enveloped viruses is often dependent on attachment proteins expressed on the host cell surface.\n Viral envelope proteins bind these receptors, and, in an incompletely understood process, facilitate fusion of the cellular and viral membranes so as to introduce the viral core into the cytoplasm.\n Only a small fraction of viral receptors have been identified so far.\n Recently, a novel coronavirus was identified as the etiological agent of severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS).\n The fusion protein gene of SARS coronavirus (SARS-CoV) was cloned and characterized, and shortly thereafter, angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2) was shown to be its functional receptor.\n Identification of ACE2 as a receptor for SARS-CoV will likely contribute to the development of antivirals and vaccines.\n It may also contribute to the development of additional animal models for studying SARS pathogenesis, and could help identify the animal reservoir of SARS-CoV.\n","id":"PMC7079798","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Birkhuser-Verlag","authors":[{"firstname":"J. H.","surname":"Kuhn","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"W.","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"H.","surname":"Choe","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"M.","surname":"Farzan","email":"farzan@mbcrr.harvard.edu","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1007/s11684-020-0754-0","date":"2020-02-08","title":"Single-cell RNA-seq data analysis on the receptor ACE2 expression reveals the potential risk of different human organs vulnerable to 2019-nCoV infection","abstract":"Electronic Supplementary Material\nSupplementary material is available for this article at 10.1007/s11684-020-0754-0 and is accessible for authorized users.\n\n\n","id":"PMC7088738","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Higher Education Press","authors":[{"firstname":"Xin","surname":"Zou","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ke","surname":"Chen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jiawei","surname":"Zou","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Peiyi","surname":"Han","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jie","surname":"Hao","email":"j.hao@sjtu.edu.cn","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zeguang","surname":"Han","email":"hanzg@sjtu.edu.cn","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1038/s41368-020-0074-x","date":"2020-02-15","title":"High expression of ACE2 receptor of 2019-nCoV on the epithelial cells of oral mucosa","abstract":"id='Par1'>It has been reported that ACE2 is the main host cell receptor of 2019-nCoV and plays a crucial role in the entry of virus into the cell to cause the final infection.\n To investigate the potential route of 2019-nCov infection on the mucosa of oral cavity, bulk RNA-seq profiles from two public databases including The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) and Functional Annotation of The Mammalian Genome Cap Analysis of Gene Expression (FANTOM5 CAGE) dataset were collected.\n RNA-seq profiling data of 13 organ types with para-carcinoma normal tissues from TCGA and 14 organ types with normal tissues from FANTOM5 CAGE were analyzed in order to explore and validate the expression of ACE2 on the mucosa of oral cavity.\n Further, single-cell transcriptomes from an independent data generated in-house were used to identify and confirm the ACE2-expressing cell composition and proportion in oral cavity.\n The results demonstrated that the ACE2 expressed on the mucosa of oral cavity.\n Interestingly, this receptor was highly enriched in epithelial cells of tongue.\n Preliminarily, those findings have explained the basic mechanism that the oral cavity is a potentially high risk for 2019-nCoV infectious susceptibility and provided a piece of evidence for the future prevention strategy in dental clinical practice as well as daily life.\n","id":"PMC7039956","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Nature Publishing Group UK","authors":[{"firstname":"Hao","surname":"Xu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Liang","surname":"Zhong","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jiaxin","surname":"Deng","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jiakuan","surname":"Peng","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hongxia","surname":"Dan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xin","surname":"Zeng","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Taiwen","surname":"Li","email":"litaiwen@scu.edu.cn","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Qianming","surname":"Chen","email":"qmchen@scu.edu.cn","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1002/path.1570","date":"2004-03-15","title":"Tissue distribution of ACE2 protein, the functional receptor for SARS coronavirus. A first step in understanding SARS pathogenesis","abstract":"Severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) is an acute infectious disease that spreads mainly via the respiratory route.\n A distinct coronavirus (SARS?CoV) has been identified as the aetiological agent of SARS.\n Recently, a metallopeptidase named angiotensin?converting enzyme 2 (ACE2) has been identified as the functional receptor for SARS?CoV.\n Although ACE2 mRNA is known to be present in virtually all organs, its protein expression is largely unknown.\n Since identifying the possible route of infection has major implications for understanding the pathogenesis and future treatment strategies for SARS, the present study investigated the localization of ACE2 protein in various human organs (oral and nasal mucosa, nasopharynx, lung, stomach, small intestine, colon, skin, lymph nodes, thymus, bone marrow, spleen, liver, kidney, and brain).\n The most remarkable finding was the surface expression of ACE2 protein on lung alveolar epithelial cells and enterocytes of the small intestine.\n Furthermore, ACE2 was present in arterial and venous endothelial cells and arterial smooth muscle cells in all organs studied.\n In conclusion, ACE2 is abundantly present in humans in the epithelia of the lung and small intestine, which might provide possible routes of entry for the SARS?CoV.\n This epithelial expression, together with the presence of ACE2 in vascular endothelium, also provides a first step in understanding the pathogenesis of the main SARS disease manifestations.\n Copyright  2004 Pathological Society of Great Britain and Ireland.\n Published by John Wiley &amp; Sons, Ltd.\n","id":"PMC7167720","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"John Wiley &amp; Sons, Ltd.","authors":[{"firstname":"I","surname":"Hamming","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"W","surname":"Timens","email":"w.timens@path.azg.nl","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"MLC","surname":"Bulthuis","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"AT","surname":"Lely","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"GJ","surname":"Navis","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"H","surname":"van Goor","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1126/science.abb2507","date":"2020-02-17","title":"Cryo-EM structure of the 2019-nCoV spike in the prefusion conformation","abstract":"The World Health Organization has declared the outbreak of a novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV) to be a public health emergency of international concern.\n The virus binds to host cells through its trimeric spike glycoprotein, making this protein a key target for potential therapies and diagnostics.\n Wrapp et al.\n determined a 3.5-angstrom-resolution structure of the 2019-nCoV trimeric spike protein by cryoelectron microscopy.\n Using biophysical assays, the authors show that this protein binds at least 10 times more tightly than the corresponding spike protein of severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS)CoV to their common host cell receptor.\n They also tested three antibodies known to bind to the SARS-CoV spike protein but did not detect binding to the 2019-nCoV spike protein.\n These studies provide valuable information to guide the development of medical counter-measures for 2019-nCoV.\n","id":"PMC7164637","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"American Association for the Advancement of Science","authors":[{"firstname":"Daniel","surname":"Wrapp","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Nianshuang","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Nianshuang","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Kizzmekia S.","surname":"Corbett","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Kizzmekia S.","surname":"Corbett","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jory A.","surname":"Goldsmith","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jory A.","surname":"Goldsmith","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ching-Lin","surname":"Hsieh","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Olubukola","surname":"Abiona","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Barney S.","surname":"Graham","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Barney S.","surname":"Graham","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jason S.","surname":"McLellan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jason S.","surname":"McLellan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1002/path.1560","date":"2004-02-12","title":"Organ distribution of severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) associated coronavirus (SARS?CoV) in SARS patients: implications for pathogenesis and virus transmission pathways","abstract":"We previously identified the major pathological changes in the respiratory and immune systems of patients who died of severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) but gained little information on the organ distribution of SARS?associated coronavirus (SARS?CoV).\n In the present study, we used a murine monoclonal antibody specific for SARS?CoV nucleoprotein, and probes specific for a SARS?CoV RNA polymerase gene fragment, for immunohistochemistry and in situ hybridization, respectively, to detect SARS?CoV systematically in tissues from patients who died of SARS.\n SARS?CoV was found in lung, trachea/bronchus, stomach, small intestine, distal convoluted renal tubule, sweat gland, parathyroid, pituitary, pancreas, adrenal gland, liver and cerebrum, but was not detected in oesophagus, spleen, lymph node, bone marrow, heart, aorta, cerebellum, thyroid, testis, ovary, uterus or muscle.\n These results suggest that, in addition to the respiratory system, the gastrointestinal tract and other organs with detectable SARS?CoV may also be targets of SARS?CoV infection.\n The pathological changes in these organs may be caused directly by the cytopathic effect mediated by local replication of the SARS?CoV; or indirectly as a result of systemic responses to respiratory failure or the harmful immune response induced by viral infection.\n In addition to viral spread through a respiratory route, SARS?CoV in the intestinal tract, kidney and sweat glands may be excreted via faeces, urine and sweat, thereby leading to virus transmission.\n This study provides important information for understanding the pathogenesis of SARS?CoV infection and sheds light on possible virus transmission pathways.\n This data will be useful for designing new strategies for prevention and treatment of SARS.\n Copyright  2004 Pathological Society of Great Britain and Ireland.\n Published by John Wiley &amp; Sons, Ltd.\n","id":"PMC7167761","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"John Wiley &amp; Sons, Ltd.","authors":[{"firstname":"Yanqing","surname":"Ding","email":"dyq@fimmu.com","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Li","surname":"He","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Qingling","surname":"Zhang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zhongxi","surname":"Huang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xiaoyan","surname":"Che","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jinlin","surname":"Hou","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Huijun","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hong","surname":"Shen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Liwen","surname":"Qiu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zhuguo","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jian","surname":"Geng","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Junjie","surname":"Cai","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Huixia","surname":"Han","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xin","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Wei","surname":"Kang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Desheng","surname":"Weng","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ping","surname":"Liang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Shibo","surname":"Jiang","email":"sjiang@nybloodcenter.org","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1086/381535","date":"2003-08-21","title":"Significant Changes of Peripheral T Lymphocyte Subsets in Patients with Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome","abstract":"This report demonstrates that a rapid decrease of peripheral T cell subsets is a unique characteristic in patients with SARS during acute infection, although total white blood cell counts, red blood cell counts, and platelet counts remain relatively normal.\n In recovering patients, a rapid and dramatic restoration of peripheral T cell subsets was seen in the periphery.\n Although the underlying mechanism of the acute decrease of peripheral T cell subsets observed in patients with SARS during the acute stage remains unknown, this clinical characteristic can facilitate an earlier and more accurate diagnosis of SARS.\n","id":"PMC7109946","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"The University of Chicago Press","authors":[{"firstname":"Taisheng","surname":"Li","email":"tli@21cn.com","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zhifeng","surname":"Qiu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Linqi","surname":"Zhang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yang","surname":"Han","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Wei","surname":"He","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zhengyin","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xiaojun","surname":"Ma","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hongwei","surname":"Fan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Wei","surname":"Lu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jing","surname":"Xie","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Huanling","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Guohua","surname":"Deng","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Aixia","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1002/jmv.25709","date":"2020-02-13","title":"Overlapping and discrete aspects of the pathology and pathogenesis of the emerging human pathogenic coronaviruses SARS?CoV, MERS?CoV, and 2019?nCoV","abstract":"First reported from Wuhan, ThePeople's Republic of China, on 31 December 2019, the ongoing outbreak of a novel coronavirus (2019?nCoV) causes great global concerns.\n Based on the advice of the International Health Regulations Emergency Committee and the fact that to date 24 other countries also reported cases, the WHO Director?General declared that the outbreak of 2019?nCoV constitutes a Public Health Emergency of International Concern on 30 January 2020. Together with the other two highly pathogenic coronaviruses, the severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus (SARS?CoV) and Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus (MERS?CoV), 2019?nCov and other yet to be identified coronaviruses pose a global threat to public health.\n In this mini?review, we provide a brief introduction to the pathology and pathogenesis of SARS?CoV and MERS?CoV and extrapolate this knowledge to the newly identified 2019?nCoV.\n","id":"PMC7166760","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"John Wiley and Sons Inc.","authors":[{"firstname":"Jia","surname":"Liu","email":"jialiu77@hust.edu.cn","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xin","surname":"Zheng","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xin","surname":"Zheng","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Qiaoxia","surname":"Tong","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Wei","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Baoju","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Kathrin","surname":"Sutter","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Mirko","surname":"Trilling","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Mengji","surname":"Lu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ulf","surname":"Dittmer","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Dongliang","surname":"Yang","email":"dlyang@hust.edu.cn","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1016/j.cca.2020.06.012","date":"2020-06-03","title":"Lactate dehydrogenase and C-reactive protein as predictors of respiratory failure in CoVID-19 patients","abstract":"\n\n\n\nCOVID19 patients can develop severe acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS).\n","id":"PMC7282743","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Elsevier B.V.","authors":[{"firstname":"Erika","surname":"Poggiali","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Domenica","surname":"Zaino","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Paolo","surname":"Immovilli","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Luca","surname":"Rovero","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Giulia","surname":"Losi","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Alessandro","surname":"Dacrema","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Marzia","surname":"Nuccetelli","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Giovanni Battista","surname":"Vadacca","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Donata","surname":"Guidetti","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Andrea","surname":"Vercelli","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Andrea","surname":"Magnacavallo","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Sergio","surname":"Bernardini","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Chiara","surname":"Terracciano","email":"c.terracciano@ausl.pc.it","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.18632/aging.103372","date":"2020-05-22","title":"Lactate dehydrogenase, an independent risk factor of severe COVID-19 patients: a retrospective and observational study","abstract":"Background: The World Health Organization has declared coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) a public health emergency of global concern.\n Updated analysis of cases might help identify the risk factors of illness severity.\n","id":"PMC7343511","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Impact Journals","authors":[{"firstname":"Yi","surname":"Han","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Haidong","surname":"Zhang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Sucheng","surname":"Mu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Wei","surname":"Wei","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Chaoyuan","surname":"Jin","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Chaoyang","surname":"Tong","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zhenju","surname":"Song","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yunfei","surname":"Zha","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yuan","surname":"Xue","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Guorong","surname":"Gu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1002/jmv.25871","date":"2020-04-09","title":"C?reactive protein correlates with computed tomographic findings and predicts severe COVID?19 early","abstract":"COVID?19 has developed into a worldwide pandemic; early identification of severe illness is critical for controlling it and improving the prognosis of patients with limited medical resources.\n The present study aimed to analyze the characteristics of severe COVID?19 and identify biomarkers for differential diagnosis and prognosis prediction.\n In total, 27 consecutive patients with COVID?19 and 75 patients with flu were retrospectively enrolled.\n Clinical parameters were collected from electronic medical records.\n The disease course was divided into four stages: initial, progression, peak, and recovery stages, according to computed tomography (CT) progress.\n to mild COVID?19, the lymphocytes in the severe COVID?19 progressively decreased at the progression and the peak stages, but rebound in the recovery stage.\n The levels of C?reactive protein (CRP) in the severe group at the initial and progression stages were higher than those in the mild group.\n Correlation analysis showed that CRP (R?=?.\n62; P?&lt;?.\n01), erythrocyte sedimentation rate (R?=?.\n55; P?&lt;?.\n01) and granulocyte/lymphocyte ratio (R?=?.\n49; P?&lt;?.\n01) were positively associated with the CT severity scores.\n In contrast, the number of lymphocytes (R?=??.\n37; P?&lt;?.\n01) was negatively correlated with the CT severity scores.\n The receiver?operating characteristic analysis demonstrated that area under the curve of CRP on the first visit for predicting severe COVID?19 was 0.87 (95% CI 0.101.00) at 20.42 mg/L cut?off, with sensitivity and specificity 83% and 91%, respectively.\n CRP in severe COVID?19 patients increased significantly at the initial stage, before CT findings.\n Importantly, CRP, which was associated with disease development, predicted early severe COVID?19.","id":"PMC7262341","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"John Wiley and Sons Inc.","authors":[{"firstname":"Chaochao","surname":"Tan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ying","surname":"Huang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ying","surname":"Huang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Fengxia","surname":"Shi","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Kui","surname":"Tan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Qionghui","surname":"Ma","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yong","surname":"Chen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xixin","surname":"Jiang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xiaosong","surname":"Li","email":"lxsong0308@163.com","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1016/j.eclinm.2020.100375","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Eosinopenia and elevated C-reactive protein facilitate triage of COVID-19 patients in fever clinic: A retrospective case-control study","abstract":"Background\nCoronavirus disease (COVID-19) caused by severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) is currently a pandemic affecting over 200 countries.\n\n Many cities have established designated fever clinics to triage suspected COVID-19 patients from other patients with similar symptoms.\n\n However, given the limited availability of the nucleic acid test as well as long waiting time for both the test and radiographic examination, the quarantine or therapeutic decisions for a large number of mixed patients were often not made in time.\n\n We aimed to identify simple and quickly available laboratory biomarkers to facilitate effective triage at the fever clinics for sorting suspected COVID-19 patients from those with COVID-19-like symptoms.\n\n\nMethods\nWe collected clinical, etiological, and laboratory data of 989 patients who visited the Fever Clinic at Wuhan Union Hospital, Wuhan, China, from Jan 31 to Feb 21. Based on polymerase chain reaction (PCR) nucleic acid testing for SARS-CoV-2 infection, they were divided into two groups: SARS-CoV-2-positive patients as cases and SARS-CoV-2-negative patients as controls.\n\n We compared the clinical features and laboratory findings of the two groups, and analyzed the diagnostic performance of several laboratory parameters in predicting SARS-CoV-2 infection and made relevant comparisons to the China diagnosis guideline of having a normal or decreased number of leukocytes (?95 109/L) or lymphopenia (&lt;11 109/L).\n\n\nFindings\nNormal or decreased number of leukocytes (?95 109/L), lymphopenia (&lt;11 109/L), eosinopenia (&lt;002 109/L), and elevated hs-CRP (?4mg/L) were presented in 950%, 522%, 747% and 867% of COVID-19 patients, much higher than 872%, 288%, 313% and 452% of the controls, respectively.\n\n The eosinopenia produced a sensitivity of 747% and specificity of 687% for separating the two groups with the area under the curve (AUC) of 0717. The combination of eosinopenia and elevated hs-CRP yielded a sensitivity of 679% and specificity of 782% (AUC=0730).\n\n The addition of eosinopenia alone or the combination of eosinopenia and elevated hs-CRP into the guideline-recommended diagnostic parameters for COVID-19 improved the predictive capacity with higher than zero of both net reclassification improvement (NRI) and integrated discrimination improvement (IDI).\n\n\nInterpretation\nThe combination of eosinopenia and elevated hs-CRP can effectively triage suspected COVID-19 patients from other patients attending the fever clinic with COVID-19-like initial symptoms.\n\n This finding would be particularly useful for designing triage strategies in an epidemic region having a large number of patients with COVID-19 and other respiratory diseases while limited medical resources for nucleic acid tests and radiographic examination.\n\n\n","id":"PMC7196382","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Elsevier","authors":[{"firstname":"Qilin","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xiuli","surname":"Ding","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Geqing","surname":"Xia","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Heng-Gui","surname":"Chen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Fenghua","surname":"Chen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zhi","surname":"Geng","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Luming","surname":"Xu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Shijun","surname":"Lei","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"An","surname":"Pan","email":"panan@hust.edu.cn","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Lin","surname":"Wang","email":"lin_wang@hust.edu.cn","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zheng","surname":"Wang","email":"zhengwang@hust.edu.cn","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1001/jamacardio.2020.0950","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Association of cardiac injury with mortality in hospitalized patients with COVID-19 in Wuhan, China","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1001/jamacardio.2020.1017","date":"2020-03-09","title":"Cardiovascular Implications of Fatal Outcomes of Patients With Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19)","abstract":"This case series study evaluates the association of underlying cardiovascular disease and myocardial injury on fatal outcomes in patients with coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19).\n","id":"PMC7101506","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"American Medical Association","authors":[{"firstname":"Tao","surname":"Guo","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yongzhen","surname":"Fan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ming","surname":"Chen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xiaoyan","surname":"Wu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Lin","surname":"Zhang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Tao","surname":"He","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hairong","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jing","surname":"Wan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xinghuan","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zhibing","surname":"Lu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1016/S0140-6736(20)30566-3","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Clinical course and risk factors for mortality of adult inpatients with COVID-19 in Wuhan, China: a retrospective cohort study","abstract":"Background\nSince December, 2019, Wuhan, China, has experienced an outbreak of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19), caused by the severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2).\n\n Epidemiological and clinical characteristics of patients with COVID-19 have been reported but risk factors for mortality and a detailed clinical course of illness, including viral shedding, have not been well described.\n\n\nMethods\nIn this retrospective, multicentre cohort study, we included all adult inpatients (?18 years old) with laboratory-confirmed COVID-19 from Jinyintan Hospital and Wuhan Pulmonary Hospital (Wuhan, China) who had been discharged or had died by Jan 31, 2020. Demographic, clinical, treatment, and laboratory data, including serial samples for viral RNA detection, were extracted from electronic medical records and compared between survivors and non-survivors.\n\n We used univariable and multivariable logistic regression methods to explore the risk factors associated with in-hospital death.\n\n\nFindings\n191 patients (135 from Jinyintan Hospital and 56 from Wuhan Pulmonary Hospital) were included in this study, of whom 137 were discharged and 54 died in hospital.\n\n 91 (48%) patients had a comorbidity, with hypertension being the most common (58 [30%] patients), followed by diabetes (36 [19%] patients) and coronary heart disease (15 [8%] patients).\n\n Multivariable regression showed increasing odds of in-hospital death associated with older age (odds ratio 110, 95% CI 103117, per year increase; p=00043), higher Sequential Organ Failure Assessment (SOFA) score (565, 2611223; p&lt;00001), and d-dimer greater than 1 ?g/mL (1842, 26412855; p=00033) on admission.\n\n Median duration of viral shedding was 200 days (IQR 170240) in survivors, but SARS-CoV-2 was detectable until death in non-survivors.\n\n The longest observed duration of viral shedding in survivors was 37 days.\n\n\nInterpretation\nThe potential risk factors of older age, high SOFA score, and d-dimer greater than 1 ?g/mL could help clinicians to identify patients with poor prognosis at an early stage.\n\n Prolonged viral shedding provides the rationale for a strategy of isolation of infected patients and optimal antiviral interventions in the future.\n\n\nFunding\nChinese Academy of Medical Sciences Innovation Fund for Medical Sciences; National Science Grant for Distinguished Young Scholars; National Key Research and Development Program of China; The Beijing Science and Technology Project; and Major Projects of National Science and Technology on New Drug Creation and Development.\n\n\n","id":"PMC7270627","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Elsevier Ltd.","authors":[{"firstname":"Fei","surname":"Zhou","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ting","surname":"Yu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ronghui","surname":"Du","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Guohui","surname":"Fan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ying","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zhibo","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jie","surname":"Xiang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yeming","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Bin","surname":"Song","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xiaoying","surname":"Gu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Lulu","surname":"Guan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yuan","surname":"Wei","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hui","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xudong","surname":"Wu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jiuyang","surname":"Xu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Shengjin","surname":"Tu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yi","surname":"Zhang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hua","surname":"Chen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Bin","surname":"Cao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1016/j.xcrm.2020.100052","date":"2020-06-18","title":"Human iPSC-Derived Cardiomyocytes Are Susceptible to SARS-CoV-2 Infection","abstract":"Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) is a pandemic caused by severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2).\n COVID-19 is defined by respiratory symptoms, but cardiac complications including viral myocarditis are also prevalent.\n Although ischemic and inflammatory responses caused by COVID-19 can detrimentally affect cardiac function, the direct impact of SARS-CoV-2 infection on human cardiomyocytes is not well understood.\n Here, we utilize human induced pluripotent stem cell-derived cardiomyocytes (hiPSC-CMs) as a model to examine the mechanisms of cardiomyocyte-specific infection by SARS-CoV-2. Microscopy and RNA sequencing demonstrate that SARS-CoV-2 can enter hiPSC-CMs via ACE2. Viral replication and cytopathic effect induce hiPSC-CM apoptosis and cessation of beating after 72h of infection.\n SARS-CoV-2 infection activates innate immune response and antiviral clearance gene pathways, while inhibiting metabolic pathways and suppressing ACE2 expression.\n These studies show that SARS-CoV-2 can infect hiPSC-CMs invitro, establishing a model for elucidating infection mechanisms and potentially a cardiac-specific antiviral drug screening platform.\n","id":"PMC7323681","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Elsevier","authors":[{"firstname":"Arun","surname":"Sharma","email":"arun.sharma@cshs.org","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Gustavo","surname":"Garcia","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yizhou","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jasmine T.","surname":"Plummer","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Kouki","surname":"Morizono","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Vaithilingaraja","surname":"Arumugaswami","email":"varumugaswami@mednet.ucla.edu","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Clive N.","surname":"Svendsen","email":"clive.svendsen@cshs.org","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1016/j.ajem.2020.04.048","date":"2020-04-14","title":"Cardiovascular complications in COVID-19","abstract":"Background\nThe coronavirus disease of 2019 (COVID-19) is caused by the severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2).\n\n While systemic inflammation and pulmonary complications can result in significant morbidity and mortality, cardiovascular complications may also occur.\n\n\nObjective\nThis brief report evaluates cardiovascular complications in the setting of COVID-19 infection.\n\n\nDiscussion\nThe current COVID-19 pandemic has resulted in over one million infected worldwide and thousands of death.\n\n The virus binds and enters through angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2).\n\n COVID-19 can result in systemic inflammation, multiorgan dysfunction, and critical illness.\n\n The cardiovascular system is also affected, with complications including myocardial injury, myocarditis, acute myocardial infarction, heart failure, dysrhythmias, and venous thromboembolic events.\n\n Current therapies for COVID-19 may interact with cardiovascular medications.\n\n\nConclusions\nEmergency clinicians should be aware of these cardiovascular complications when evaluating and managing the patient with COVID-19.\n","id":"PMC7165109","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"W B Saunders","authors":[{"firstname":"Brit","surname":"Long","email":"brit.long@yahoo.com","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"William J.","surname":"Brady","email":"WB4Z@hscmail.mcc.virginia.edu","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Alex","surname":"Koyfman","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Michael","surname":"Gottlieb","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1136/heartjnl-2020-317186","date":"1970-01-01","title":"COVID-19 pandemic and troponin: indirect myocardial injury, myocardial inflammation or myocarditis?","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/S0140-6736(20)30937-5","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Endothelial cell infection and endotheliitis in COVID-19","abstract":"","id":"PMC7172722","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Elsevier Ltd.","authors":[{"firstname":"Zsuzsanna","surname":"Varga","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Andreas J","surname":"Flammer","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Peter","surname":"Steiger","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Martina","surname":"Haberecker","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Rea","surname":"Andermatt","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Annelies S","surname":"Zinkernagel","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Mandeep R","surname":"Mehra","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Reto A","surname":"Schuepbach","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Frank","surname":"Ruschitzka","email":"frank.ruschitzka@usz.ch","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Holger","surname":"Moch","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Genomic characterization of the 2019 novel human-pathogenic coronavirus isolated from a patient with atypical pneumonia after visiting Wuhan","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[{"doi":"10.1016/j.tim.2013.05.005","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Interspecies transmission and emergence of novel viruses: lessons from bats and birds","abstract":"\n\n\n\nBats and birds are reservoirs of zoonotic viruses.\n","id":"PMC7126491","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Elsevier Ltd.","authors":[{"firstname":"Jasper Fuk-Woo","surname":"Chan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Kelvin Kai-Wang","surname":"To","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Herman","surname":"Tse","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Dong-Yan","surname":"Jin","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Kwok-Yung","surname":"Yuen","email":"kyyuen@hkucc.hku.hk","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1128/CMR.00023-07","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus as an agent of emerging and reemerging infection","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1128/CMR.00102-14","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus: another zoonotic betacoronavirus causing SARS-like disease","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1128/JVI.79.2.884-895.2005","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Characterization and complete genome sequence of a novel coronavirus, coronavirus HKU1, from patients with pneumonia","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/S0140-6736(03)13077-2","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Coronavirus as a possible cause of severe acute respiratory syndrome","abstract":"Background\nAn outbreak of severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) has been reported in Hong Kong.\n\n We investigated the viral cause and clinical presentation among 50 patients.\n\n\nMethods\nWe analysed case notes and microbiological findings for 50 patients with SARS, representing more than five separate epidemiologically linked transmission clusters.\n\n We defined the clinical presentation and risk factors associated with severe disease and investigated the causal agents by chest radiography and laboratory testing of nasopharyngeal aspirates and sera samples.\n\n We compared the laboratory findings with those submitted for microbiological investigation of other diseases from patients whose identity was masked.\n\n\nFindings\nPatients' age ranged from 23 to 74 years.\n\n Fever, chills, myalgia, and cough were the most frequent complaints.\n\n When compared with chest radiographic changes, respiratory symptoms and auscultatory findings were disproportionally mild.\n\n Patients who were household contacts of other infected people and had older age, lymphopenia, and liver dysfunction were associated with severe disease.\n\n A virus belonging to the family Coronaviridae was isolated from two patients.\n\n By use of serological and reverse-transcriptase PCR specific for this virus, 45 of 50 patients with SARS, but no controls, had evidence of infection with this virus.\n\n\nInterpretation\nA coronavirus was isolated from patients with SARS that might be the primary agent associated with this disease.\n\n Serological and molecular tests specific for the virus permitted a definitive laboratory diagnosis to be made and allowed further investigation to define whether other cofactors play a part in disease progression.\n\n\n","id":"PMC7112372","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Elsevier Ltd.","authors":[{"firstname":"JSM","surname":"Peiris","email":"malik@hkucc.hku.hk","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"ST","surname":"Lai","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"LLM","surname":"Poon","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Y","surname":"Guan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"LYC","surname":"Yam","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"W","surname":"Lim","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"J","surname":"Nicholls","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"WKS","surname":"Yee","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"WW","surname":"Yan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"MT","surname":"Cheung","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"VCC","surname":"Cheng","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"KH","surname":"Chan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"DNC","surname":"Tsang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"RWH","surname":"Yung","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"TK","surname":"Ng","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"KY","surname":"Yuen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"NULL","surname":"NULL","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1038/nmicrobiol.2016.4","date":"2016-01-12","title":"MERS coronavirus induces apoptosis in kidney and lung by upregulating Smad7 and FGF2","abstract":"Supplementary information\nThe online version of this article (doi:10.1038/nmicrobiol.\n\n2016.4) contains supplementary material, which is available to authorized users.\n\n\n","id":"PMC7097571","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Nature Publishing Group UK","authors":[{"firstname":"Man-Lung","surname":"Yeung","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yanfeng","surname":"Yao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Lilong","surname":"Jia","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jasper F. W.","surname":"Chan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Kwok-Hung","surname":"Chan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Kwok-Fan","surname":"Cheung","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Honglin","surname":"Chen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Vincent K. M.","surname":"Poon","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Vincent K. M.","surname":"Poon","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Alan K. L.","surname":"Tsang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Kelvin K.W.","surname":"To","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ming-Kwong","surname":"Yiu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jade L. L.","surname":"Teng","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hin","surname":"Chu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jie","surname":"Zhou","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Qing","surname":"Zhang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Wei","surname":"Deng","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Susanna K. P.","surname":"Lau","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Johnson Y. N.","surname":"Lau","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Patrick C. Y.","surname":"Woo","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Tak-Mao","surname":"Chan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Susan","surname":"Yung","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Bo-Jian","surname":"Zheng","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Dong-Yan","surname":"Jin","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Peter W.","surname":"Mathieson","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Peter W.","surname":"Mathieson","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Chuan","surname":"Qin","email":"qinchuan@pumc.edu.cn","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Kwok-Yung","surname":"Yuen","email":"kyyuen@hku.hk","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1016/S0140-6736(20","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Clinical features of patients infected with 2019 novel coronavirus in Wuhan, China","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/S0140-6736(20","date":"1970-01-01","title":"A familial cluster of pneumonia associated with the 2019 novel coronavirus indicating person-to-person transmission: a study of a family cluster","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The neighbor-joining method: a new method for reconstructing phylogenetic trees","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1111/j.1558-5646.1985.tb00420.x","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Confidence limits on phylogenies: an approach using the bootstrap","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Evolutionary divergence and convergence in proteins","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1093/molbev/msy096","date":"1970-01-01","title":"MEGA x: Molecular evolutionary Genetics analysis across computing platforms","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1093/nar/gkz297","date":"2019-04-15","title":"The PSIPRED Protein Analysis Workbench: 20 years on","abstract":"The PSIPRED Workbench is a web server offering a range of predictive methods to the bioscience community for 20 years.\n Here, we present the work we have completed to update the PSIPRED Protein Analysis Workbench and make it ready for the next 20 years.\n The main focus of our recent website upgrade work has been the acceleration of analyses in the face of increasing protein sequence database size.\n We additionally discuss any new software, the new hardware infrastructure, our webservices and web site.\n Lastly we survey updates to some of the key predictive algorithms available through our website.\n","id":"PMC6602445","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Oxford University Press","authors":[{"firstname":"Daniel W A","surname":"Buchan","email":"daniel.buchan@ucl.ac.uk","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"David T","surname":"Jones","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1016/j.chom.2014.08.009","date":"2014-08-22","title":"Bat Origins of MERS-CoV Supported by Bat Coronavirus HKU4Usage of Human Receptor CD26","abstract":"The recently reported Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus (MERS-CoV) is phylogenetically closely related to the bat coronaviruses (BatCoVs) HKU4 and HKU5. However, the evolutionary pathway of MERS-CoV is still unclear.\n A receptor binding domain (RBD) in the MERS-CoV envelope-embedded spike protein specifically engages human CD26 (hCD26) to initiate viral entry.\n The high sequence identity in the viral spike protein prompted us to investigate if HKU4 and HKU5 can recognize hCD26 for cell entry.\n We found that HKU4-RBD, but not HKU5-RBD, binds to hCD26, and pseudotyped viruses embedding HKU4 spike can infect cells via hCD26 recognition.\n The structure of the HKU4-RBD/hCD26 complex revealed a hCD26-binding mode similar overall to that observed for MERS-RBD.\n HKU4-RBD, however, is less adapted to hCD26 than MERS-RBD, explaining its lower affinity for receptor binding.\n Our findings support a bat origin for MERS-CoV and indicate the need for surveillance of HKU4-related viruses in bats.\n","id":"PMC7104937","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Elsevier Inc.","authors":[{"firstname":"Qihui","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jianxun","surname":"Qi","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yuan","surname":"Yuan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yifang","surname":"Xuan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Pengcheng","surname":"Han","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yuhua","surname":"Wan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Wei","surname":"Ji","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yan","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ying","surname":"Wu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jianwei","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Aikichi","surname":"Iwamoto","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"PatrickC.Y.","surname":"Woo","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Kwok-Yung","surname":"Yuen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jinghua","surname":"Yan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Guangwen","surname":"Lu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"GeorgeF.","surname":"Gao","email":"gaof@im.ac.cn","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1126/sciadv.aav4580","date":"2019-02-14","title":"A pan-coronavirus fusion inhibitor targeting the HR1 domain of human coronavirus spike","abstract":"EK1 is a broad-spectrum human coronavirus fusion inhibitor for combating infection of current and emerging coronaviruses.\n","id":"PMC6457931","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"American Association for the Advancement of Science","authors":[{"firstname":"Shuai","surname":"Xia","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Lei","surname":"Yan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Lei","surname":"Yan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Wei","surname":"Xu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Wei","surname":"Xu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Anurodh Shankar","surname":"Agrawal","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Anurodh Shankar","surname":"Agrawal","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Abdullah","surname":"Algaissi","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Chien-Te K.","surname":"Tseng","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Qian","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Lanying","surname":"Du","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Wenjie","surname":"Tan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ian A.","surname":"Wilson","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Shibo","surname":"Jiang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Shibo","surname":"Jiang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Bei","surname":"Yang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Bei","surname":"Yang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Lu","surname":"Lu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Lu","surname":"Lu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1128/JVI.79.23.14909-14922.2005","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus group-specific open reading frames encode nonessential functions for replication in cell cultures and mice","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/j.virusres.2006.06.005","date":"2006-06-07","title":"Over-expression of severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 3b protein induces both apoptosis and necrosis in Vero E6 cells","abstract":"The genome of the severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus encodes for eight accessory viral proteins with no known homologues in other coronaviruses.\n One of these is the 3b protein, which is encoded by the second open reading frame in subgenomic RNA 3 and contains 154 amino acids.\n Here, a detailed time-course study was performed to compare the apoptosis and necrosis profiles induced by full-length 3b, a 3b mutant that was deleted by 30 amino acids from the C terminus (3b?124-154) and the classical apoptosis inducer, Bax.\n Our results showed that Vero E6 cells transfected with a construct for expressing 3b underwent necrosis as early as 6h after transfection and underwent simultaneous necrosis and apoptosis at later time-points.\n At all the time-points analysed, the apoptosis induced by the expression of 3b was less than the level induced by Bax but the level of necrosis was comparable.\n The 3b?124-154 mutant behaves in a similar manner indicating that the localization of the 3b protein does not seems to be important for the cell-death pathways since full-length 3b is localized predominantly to the nucleolus, while the mutant is found to be concentrated in the peri-nuclear regions.\n To our knowledge, this is the first report of the induction of necrosis by a SARS-CoV protein.\n","id":"PMC7114230","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Elsevier B.V.","authors":[{"firstname":"Sehaam","surname":"Khan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Burtram C.","surname":"Fielding","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Timothy H.P.","surname":"Tan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Chih-Fong","surname":"Chou","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Shuo","surname":"Shen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Seng Gee","surname":"Lim","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Wanjin","surname":"Hong","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yee-Joo","surname":"Tan","email":"mcbtanyj@imcb.a-star.edu.sg","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1128/JVI.01782-06","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus open reading frame (orf) 3b, orf 6, and nucleocapsid proteins function as interferon antagonists","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1099/vir.0.033589-0","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Bat severe acute respiratory syndrome-like coronavirus ORF3b homologues display different interferon antagonist activities","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1073/pnas.0409608102","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Cross-host evolution of severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus in palm civet and human","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1128/JVI.01631-07","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The 29-nucleotide deletion present in human but not in animal severe acute respiratory syndrome coronaviruses disrupts the functional expression of open reading frame 8","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1128/JVI.01048-15","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) coronavirus ORF8 protein Is acquired from SARS-related coronavirus from Greater horseshoe bats through recombination","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1038/s41420-019-0181-7","date":"2019-05-13","title":"SARS-Coronavirus Open Reading Frame-8b triggers intracellular stress pathways and activates NLRP3 inflammasomes","abstract":"id='Par1'>The SARS (severe acute respiratory syndrome) outbreak was caused by a coronavirus (CoV) named the SARS-CoV.\n SARS pathology is propagated both by direct cytotoxic effects of the virus and aberrant activation of the innate immune response.\n Here, we identify several mechanisms by which a SARS-CoV open reading frame (ORF) activates intracellular stress pathways and targets the innate immune response.\n We show that ORF8b forms insoluble intracellular aggregates dependent on a valine at residue 77. Aggregated ORF8b induces endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress, lysosomal damage, and subsequent activation of the master regulator of the autophagy and lysosome machinery, Transcription factor EB (TFEB).\n ORF8b causes cell death in epithelial cells, which is partially rescued by reducing its ability to aggregate.\n In macrophages, ORF8b robustly activates the NLRP3 inflammasome by providing a potent signal 2 required for activation.\n Mechanistically, ORF8b interacts directly with the Leucine Rich Repeat domain of NLRP3 and localizes with NLRP3 and ASC in cytosolic dot-like structures.\n ORF8b triggers cell death consistent with pyroptotic cell death in macrophages.\n While in those cells lacking NLRP3 accumulating ORF8b cytosolic aggregates cause ER stress, mitochondrial dysfunction, and caspase-independent cell death.\n","id":"PMC6549181","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Nature Publishing Group UK","authors":[{"firstname":"Chong-Shan","surname":"Shi","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Neel R.","surname":"Nabar","email":"neel.nabar@nih.gov","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ning-Na","surname":"Huang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ning-Na","surname":"Huang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"John H.","surname":"Kehrl","email":"jkehrl@niaid.nih.gov","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1016/j.virusres.2015.02.025","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The structure and functions of coronavirus genomic 3? and 5? ends","abstract":"\n\n\n\nModels of conserved 5? and 3? betacoronavirus cis-acting RNA secondary structures are presented.\n","id":"PMC4476908","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Elsevier B.V.","authors":[{"firstname":"Dong","surname":"Yang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Julian L.","surname":"Leibowitz","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Clinical features of patients infected with 2019 novel coronavirus in Wuhan, China","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"A familial cluster of pneumonia associated with the 2019 novel coronavirus indicating person-to-person transmission: a study of a family cluster","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/s0140-6736(20)30154-9","date":"1970-01-01","title":"A familial cluster of pneumonia associated with the 2019 novel coronavirus indicating person-to-person transmission: a study of a family cluster","abstract":"Background\nAn ongoing outbreak of pneumonia associated with a novel coronavirus was reported in Wuhan city, Hubei province, China.\n\n Affected patients were geographically linked with a local wet market as a potential source.\n\n No data on person-to-person or nosocomial transmission have been published to date.\n\n\nMethods\nIn this study, we report the epidemiological, clinical, laboratory, radiological, and microbiological findings of five patients in a family cluster who presented with unexplained pneumonia after returning to Shenzhen, Guangdong province, China, after a visit to Wuhan, and an additional family member who did not travel to Wuhan.\n\n Phylogenetic analysis of genetic sequences from these patients were done.\n\n\nFindings\nFrom Jan 10, 2020, we enrolled a family of six patients who travelled to Wuhan from Shenzhen between Dec 29, 2019 and Jan 4, 2020. Of six family members who travelled to Wuhan, five were identified as infected with the novel coronavirus.\n\n Additionally, one family member, who did not travel to Wuhan, became infected with the virus after several days of contact with four of the family members.\n\n None of the family members had contacts with Wuhan markets or animals, although two had visited a Wuhan hospital.\n\n Five family members (aged 3666 years) presented with fever, upper or lower respiratory tract symptoms, or diarrhoea, or a combination of these 36 days after exposure.\n\n They presented to our hospital (The University of Hong Kong-Shenzhen Hospital, Shenzhen) 610 days after symptom onset.\n\n They and one asymptomatic child (aged 10 years) had radiological ground-glass lung opacities.\n\n Older patients (aged &gt;60 years) had more systemic symptoms, extensive radiological ground-glass lung changes, lymphopenia, thrombocytopenia, and increased C-reactive protein and lactate dehydrogenase levels.\n\n The nasopharyngeal or throat swabs of these six patients were negative for known respiratory microbes by point-of-care multiplex RT-PCR, but five patients (four adults and the child) were RT-PCR positive for genes encoding the internal RNA-dependent RNA polymerase and surface Spike protein of this novel coronavirus, which were confirmed by Sanger sequencing.\n\n Phylogenetic analysis of these five patients' RT-PCR amplicons and two full genomes by next-generation sequencing showed that this is a novel coronavirus, which is closest to the bat severe acute respiatory syndrome (SARS)-related coronaviruses found in Chinese horseshoe bats.\n\n\nInterpretation\nOur findings are consistent with person-to-person transmission of this novel coronavirus in hospital and family settings, and the reports of infected travellers in other geographical regions.\n\n\nFunding\nThe Shaw Foundation Hong Kong, Michael Seak-Kan Tong, Respiratory Viral Research Foundation Limited, Hui Ming, Hui Hoy and Chow Sin Lan Charity Fund Limited, Marina Man-Wai Lee, the Hong Kong Hainan Commercial Association South China Microbiology Research Fund, Sanming Project of Medicine (Shenzhen), and High Level-Hospital Program (Guangdong Health Commission).\n\n\n","id":"PMC7159286","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Elsevier Ltd.","authors":[{"firstname":"Jasper Fuk-Woo","surname":"Chan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Shuofeng","surname":"Yuan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Kin-Hang","surname":"Kok","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Kelvin Kai-Wang","surname":"To","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hin","surname":"Chu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jin","surname":"Yang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Fanfan","surname":"Xing","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jieling","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Cyril Chik-Yan","surname":"Yip","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Rosana Wing-Shan","surname":"Poon","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hoi-Wah","surname":"Tsoi","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Simon Kam-Fai","surname":"Lo","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Kwok-Hung","surname":"Chan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Vincent Kwok-Man","surname":"Poon","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Wan-Mui","surname":"Chan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jonathan Daniel","surname":"Ip","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jian-Piao","surname":"Cai","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Vincent Chi-Chung","surname":"Cheng","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Honglin","surname":"Chen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Christopher Kim-Ming","surname":"Hui","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Kwok-Yung","surname":"Yuen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Epidemiological and clinical characteristics of 99 cases of 2019 novel coronavirus pneumonia in Wuhan, China: adescriptivestudy","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/s0140-6736(20)30211-7[published","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Epidemiological and clinical characteristics of 99 cases of 2019 novel coronavirus pneumonia in Wuhan, China: a descriptive study","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"First case of 2019 novel coronavirus in the United States","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Clinical features of patients infected with 2019 novel coronavirus in Wuhan, China","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Lung CT image of a confirmed case of the 2019 novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV) infected pneumonia (With differential diagnosis of the SARS)","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1056/NEJMoa2001316","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Early Transmission Dynamics in Wuhan, China, of Novel CoronavirusInfected Pneumonia","abstract":"Background\nThe initial cases of novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV)infected pneumonia (NCIP) occurred in Wuhan, Hubei Province, China, in December 2019 and January 2020. We analyzed data on the first 425 confirmed cases in Wuhan to determine the epidemiologic characteristics of NCIP.\n\n\nMethods\nWe collected information on demographic characteristics, exposure history, and illness timelines of laboratory-confirmed cases of NCIP that had been reported by January 22, 2020. We described characteristics of the cases and estimated the key epidemiologic time-delay distributions.\n\n In the early period of exponential growth, we estimated the epidemic doubling time and the basic reproductive number.\n\n\nResults\nAmong the first 425 patients with confirmed NCIP, the median age was 59 years and 56% were male.\n\n The majority of cases (55%) with onset before January 1, 2020, were linked to the Huanan Seafood Wholesale Market, as compared with 8.6% of the subsequent cases.\n\n The mean incubation period was 5.2 days (95% confidence interval [CI], 4.1 to 7.0), with the 95th percentile of the distribution at 12.5 days.\n\n In its early stages, the epidemic doubled in size every 7.4 days.\n\n With a mean serial interval of 7.5 days (95% CI, 5.3 to 19), the basic reproductive number was estimated to be 2.2 (95% CI, 1.4 to 3.9).\n\n\nConclusions\nOn the basis of this information, there is evidence that human-to-human transmission has occurred among close contacts since the middle of December 2019. Considerable efforts to reduce transmission will be required to control outbreaks if similar dynamics apply elsewhere.\n\n Measures to prevent or reduce transmission should be implemented in populations at risk.\n\n (Funded by the Ministry of Science and Technology of China and others.\n\n)\n","id":"PMC7121484","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Massachusetts Medical Society","authors":[{"firstname":"Qun","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xuhua","surname":"Guan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Peng","surname":"Wu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xiaoye","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Lei","surname":"Zhou","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yeqing","surname":"Tong","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ruiqi","surname":"Ren","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Kathy S.M.","surname":"Leung","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Eric H.Y.","surname":"Lau","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jessica Y.","surname":"Wong","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xuesen","surname":"Xing","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Nijuan","surname":"Xiang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yang","surname":"Wu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Chao","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Qi","surname":"Chen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Dan","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Tian","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jing","surname":"Zhao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Man","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Wenxiao","surname":"Tu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Chuding","surname":"Chen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Lianmei","surname":"Jin","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Rui","surname":"Yang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Qi","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Suhua","surname":"Zhou","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Rui","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hui","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yinbo","surname":"Luo","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yuan","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ge","surname":"Shao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Huan","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zhongfa","surname":"Tao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yang","surname":"Yang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zhiqiang","surname":"Deng","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Boxi","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zhitao","surname":"Ma","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yanping","surname":"Zhang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Guoqing","surname":"Shi","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Tommy T.Y.","surname":"Lam","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Joseph T.","surname":"Wu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"George F.","surname":"Gao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Benjamin J.","surname":"Cowling","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Bo","surname":"Yang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Bo","surname":"Yang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Gabriel M.","surname":"Leung","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zijian","surname":"Feng","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1007/s15010-016-0972-1","date":"2016-11-24","title":"Role of neutrophil to lymphocyte and monocyte to lymphocyte ratios in the diagnosis of bacterial infection in patients with fever","abstract":"Purpose\nid='Par1'>To study the role of the neutrophil:lymphocyte ratio (NLR) and monocyte:lymphocyte ratio (MLR) in discriminating between different patient groups hospitalized for fever due to infection and those without infection.\n\n\nMethods\nid='Par2'>For 299 patients admitted to hospital for fever with unknown cause, a number of characteristics including NLR and MLR were recorded.\n\n These characteristics were used in a multiple multinomial regression analysis to estimate the probability of a final diagnostic group of bacterial, viral, clinically confirmed, or no infection.\n\n\nResults\nid='Par3'>Both NLR and MLR significantly predicted final diagnostic group.\n\n Being highly correlated, however, both variables could not be retained in the same model.\n\n Both variables also interacted significantly with duration of fever.\n\n Generally, higher values of NLR and MLR indicated larger probabilities for bacterial infection and low probabilities for viral infection.\n\n Patients with septicemia had significantly higher NLR compared to patients with other bacterial infections with fever for less than one week.\n\n White blood cell counts, neutrophil counts, and C-reactive proteins did not differ significantly between septicemia and the other bacterial infection groups.\n\n\nConclusions\nid='Par4'>NLR is a more useful diagnostic tool to identify patients with septicemia than other more commonly used diagnostic blood tests.\n\n NLR and MLR may be useful in the diagnosis of bacterial infection among patients hospitalized for fever.\n\n\n","id":"PMC5488068","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Springer Berlin Heidelberg","authors":[{"firstname":"Are","surname":"Naess","email":"are.nass@k2.uib.no","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Siri Saervold","surname":"Nilssen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Siri Saervold","surname":"Nilssen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Reidun","surname":"Mo","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Geir Egil","surname":"Eide","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Haakon","surname":"Sjursen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1001/jama.2020.0757","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Coronavirus infections-more than just the common cold","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1186/s13054-014-0731-6","date":"2014-12-23","title":"The association between the neutrophil-to-lymphocyte ratio and mortality in critical illness: an observational cohort study","abstract":"Introduction\nThe neutrophil-to-lymphocyte ratio (NLR) is a biological marker that has been shown to be associated with outcomes in patients with a number of different malignancies.\n\n The objective of this study was to assess the relationship between NLR and mortality in a population of adult critically ill patients.\n\n\nMethods\nWe performed an observational cohort study of unselected intensive care unit (ICU) patients based on records in a large clinical database.\n\n We computed individual patient NLR and categorized patients by quartile of this ratio.\n\n The association of NLR quartiles and 28-day mortality was assessed using multivariable logistic regression.\n\n Secondary outcomes included mortality in the ICU, in-hospital mortality and 1-year mortality.\n\n An a priori subgroup analysis of patients with versus without sepsis was performed to assess any differences in the relationship between the NLR and outcomes in these cohorts.\n\n\nResults\nA total of 5,056 patients were included.\n\n Their 28-day mortality rate was 19%.\n\n The median age of the cohort was 65 years, and 47% were female.\n\n The median NLR for the entire cohort was 8.9 (interquartile range, 4.99 to 16.21).\n\n Following multivariable adjustments, there was a stepwise increase in mortality with increasing quartiles of NLR (first quartile: reference category; second quartile odds ratio (OR) = 1.32; 95% confidence interval (CI), 1.03 to 1.71; third quartile OR = 1.43; 95% CI, 1.12 to 1.83; 4th quartile OR = 1.71; 95% CI, 1.35 to 2.16).\n\n A similar stepwise relationship was identified in the subgroup of patients who presented without sepsis.\n\n The NLR was not associated with 28-day mortality in patients with sepsis.\n\n Increasing quartile of NLR was statistically significantly associated with secondary outcome.\n\n\nConclusion\nThe NLR is associated with outcomes in unselected critically ill patients.\n\n In patients with sepsis, there was no statistically significant relationship between NLR and mortality.\n\n Further investigation is required to increase understanding of the pathophysiology of this relationship and to validate these findings with data collected prospectively.\n\n\nElectronic supplementary material\nThe online version of this article (doi:10.1186/s13054-014-0731-6) contains supplementary material, which is available to authorized users.\n\n\n","id":"PMC4344736","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"BioMed Central","authors":[{"firstname":"Justin D","surname":"Salciccioli","email":"justin.salciccioli12@imperial.ac.uk","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Dominic C","surname":"Marshall","email":"dominic.marshall12@imperial.ac.uk","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Marco AF","surname":"Pimentel","email":"marco.pimentel@eng.ox.ac.uk","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Mauro D","surname":"Santos","email":"mauro.santos@eng.ox.ac.uk","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Tom","surname":"Pollard","email":"tom.pollard.11@ucl.ac.uk","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Leo Anthony","surname":"Celi","email":"lceli@mit.edu","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Joseph","surname":"Shalhoub","email":"j.shalhoub@imperial.ac.uk","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1038/s41586-020-2008-3","date":"2020-01-28","title":"A new coronavirus associated with human respiratory disease in China","abstract":"id='Par1'>Emerging infectious diseases, such as severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) and Zika virus disease, present a major threat to public health13.\n Despite intense research efforts, how, when and where new diseases appear are still a source of considerable uncertainty.\n A severe respiratory disease was recently reported in Wuhan, Hubei province, China.\n As of 25 January 2020, at least 1,975cases had been reported since the first patient was hospitalized on 12 December 2019. Epidemiological investigations have suggested that the outbreak was associated with a seafood market in Wuhan.\n Here we study a single patient who was a worker at the market and who was admitted to the Central Hospital of Wuhan on 26 December 2019 while experiencing a severe respiratory syndrome that included fever, dizziness and a cough.\n Metagenomic RNA sequencing4 of a sample of bronchoalveolar lavage fluid from the patient identified a new RNA virus strain from the family Coronaviridae, which is designated here WH-Human 1 coronavirus (and has also been referred to as 2019-nCoV).\n Phylogenetic analysis of the complete viral genome (29,903nucleotides) revealed that the virus was most closely related (89.1% nucleotide similarity) to a group of SARS-like coronaviruses (genus Betacoronavirus, subgenus Sarbecovirus) that had previously been found in bats in China5.\n This outbreak highlights the ongoing ability of viral spill-over from animals to cause severe disease in humans.\n","id":"PMC7094943","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Nature Publishing Group UK","authors":[{"firstname":"Fan","surname":"Wu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Su","surname":"Zhao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Bin","surname":"Yu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yan-Mei","surname":"Chen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Wen","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zhi-Gang","surname":"Song","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yi","surname":"Hu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zhao-Wu","surname":"Tao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zhao-Wu","surname":"Tao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jun-Hua","surname":"Tian","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yuan-Yuan","surname":"Pei","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ming-Li","surname":"Yuan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yu-Ling","surname":"Zhang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Fa-Hui","surname":"Dai","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yi","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Qi-Min","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jiao-Jiao","surname":"Zheng","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Lin","surname":"Xu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Edward C.","surname":"Holmes","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yong-Zhen","surname":"Zhang","email":"zhangyongzhen@shphc.org.cn","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yong-Zhen","surname":"Zhang","email":"zhangyongzhen@shphc.org.cn","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1111/hdi.12549","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Monocyte/lymphocyte ratio as a better predictor of cardiovascular and all-cause mortality in hemodialysis patients: a prospective cohort study","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Ratio of neutrophil to lymphocyte counts-rapid and simple parameter of systemic inflammation and stress in critically ill","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.2147/TCRM.S206930","date":"2019-05-08","title":"Neutrophillymphocyte ratio as an early new marker in AIV-H7N9-infected patients: a retrospective study","abstract":"Background: Avian AIV-H7N9 influenza progresses rapidly and has a high fatality rate.\n However, it lacks an early effective biomarker to predict disease severity and fatal outcomes successfully.\n Our study aimed to explore whether the neutrophil-to-lymphocyte ratio (NLR) taken within 24 h after admission can predict disease severity and fatality in AIV-H7N9-infected patients.\n","id":"PMC6661995","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Dove","authors":[{"firstname":"Yan","surname":"Zhang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Pengfei","surname":"Zou","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hainv","surname":"Gao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Meifang","surname":"Yang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ping","surname":"Yi","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jianhe","surname":"Gan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yinzhong","surname":"Shen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Weihong","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Wenhong","surname":"Zhang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jun","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Peng","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Lanjuan","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"A new coronavirus associated with human respiratory disease in China","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The press conference on COVID-19 in Hubei","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Six weeks into the 2019 coronavirus disease (COVID-19) outbreak- it is time to consider strategies to impede the emergence of new zoonotic infections","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"COVID-19: fighting panic with information","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"A confirmed COVID-19 case in Suzhou was reported by the national health and Health Commission","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Presumed asymptomatic carrier transmission of COVID-19","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Estimated effectiveness of symptom and risk screening to prevent the spread of COVID-19","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[{"doi":"10.2807/1560-7917.ES.2020.25.5.2000062","date":"2020-02-06","title":"Incubation period of 2019 novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV) infections among travellers from Wuhan, China, 2028 January 2020","abstract":"A novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV) is causing an outbreak of viral pneumonia that started in Wuhan, China.\n Using the travel history and symptom onset of 88 confirmed cases that were detected outside Wuhan in the early outbreak phase, we estimate the mean incubation period to be 6.4 days (95% credible interval: 5.67.7), ranging from 2.1 to 11.1 days (2.5th to 97.5th percentile).\n These values should help inform 2019-nCoV case definitions and appropriate quarantine durations.\n","id":"PMC7014672","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC)","authors":[{"firstname":"Jantien A","surname":"Backer","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Don","surname":"Klinkenberg","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Don","surname":"Klinkenberg","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jacco","surname":"Wallinga","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jacco","surname":"Wallinga","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"China restricts movement to fight coronavirus","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Fast detection is critical to contain deadly 2019 Wuhan coronavirus","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"International travels and fever screening during epidemics: a literature review on the effectiveness and potential use of non-contact infrared thermometers","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1101/2020.01.27.20018952","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Estimating the effective reproduction number of the 2019-nCoV in China","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"China launches coronavirus &quot;close contact&quot; app","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/S0140-6736(20)30154-9","date":"1970-01-01","title":"A familial cluster of pneumonia associated with the 2019 novel coronavirus indicating person-to-person transmission: a study of a family cluster","abstract":"Background\nAn ongoing outbreak of pneumonia associated with a novel coronavirus was reported in Wuhan city, Hubei province, China.\n\n Affected patients were geographically linked with a local wet market as a potential source.\n\n No data on person-to-person or nosocomial transmission have been published to date.\n\n\nMethods\nIn this study, we report the epidemiological, clinical, laboratory, radiological, and microbiological findings of five patients in a family cluster who presented with unexplained pneumonia after returning to Shenzhen, Guangdong province, China, after a visit to Wuhan, and an additional family member who did not travel to Wuhan.\n\n Phylogenetic analysis of genetic sequences from these patients were done.\n\n\nFindings\nFrom Jan 10, 2020, we enrolled a family of six patients who travelled to Wuhan from Shenzhen between Dec 29, 2019 and Jan 4, 2020. Of six family members who travelled to Wuhan, five were identified as infected with the novel coronavirus.\n\n Additionally, one family member, who did not travel to Wuhan, became infected with the virus after several days of contact with four of the family members.\n\n None of the family members had contacts with Wuhan markets or animals, although two had visited a Wuhan hospital.\n\n Five family members (aged 3666 years) presented with fever, upper or lower respiratory tract symptoms, or diarrhoea, or a combination of these 36 days after exposure.\n\n They presented to our hospital (The University of Hong Kong-Shenzhen Hospital, Shenzhen) 610 days after symptom onset.\n\n They and one asymptomatic child (aged 10 years) had radiological ground-glass lung opacities.\n\n Older patients (aged &gt;60 years) had more systemic symptoms, extensive radiological ground-glass lung changes, lymphopenia, thrombocytopenia, and increased C-reactive protein and lactate dehydrogenase levels.\n\n The nasopharyngeal or throat swabs of these six patients were negative for known respiratory microbes by point-of-care multiplex RT-PCR, but five patients (four adults and the child) were RT-PCR positive for genes encoding the internal RNA-dependent RNA polymerase and surface Spike protein of this novel coronavirus, which were confirmed by Sanger sequencing.\n\n Phylogenetic analysis of these five patients' RT-PCR amplicons and two full genomes by next-generation sequencing showed that this is a novel coronavirus, which is closest to the bat severe acute respiatory syndrome (SARS)-related coronaviruses found in Chinese horseshoe bats.\n\n\nInterpretation\nOur findings are consistent with person-to-person transmission of this novel coronavirus in hospital and family settings, and the reports of infected travellers in other geographical regions.\n\n\nFunding\nThe Shaw Foundation Hong Kong, Michael Seak-Kan Tong, Respiratory Viral Research Foundation Limited, Hui Ming, Hui Hoy and Chow Sin Lan Charity Fund Limited, Marina Man-Wai Lee, the Hong Kong Hainan Commercial Association South China Microbiology Research Fund, Sanming Project of Medicine (Shenzhen), and High Level-Hospital Program (Guangdong Health Commission).\n\n\n","id":"PMC7159286","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Elsevier Ltd.","authors":[{"firstname":"Jasper Fuk-Woo","surname":"Chan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Shuofeng","surname":"Yuan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Kin-Hang","surname":"Kok","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Kelvin Kai-Wang","surname":"To","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hin","surname":"Chu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jin","surname":"Yang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Fanfan","surname":"Xing","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jieling","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Cyril Chik-Yan","surname":"Yip","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Rosana Wing-Shan","surname":"Poon","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hoi-Wah","surname":"Tsoi","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Simon Kam-Fai","surname":"Lo","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Kwok-Hung","surname":"Chan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Vincent Kwok-Man","surname":"Poon","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Wan-Mui","surname":"Chan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jonathan Daniel","surname":"Ip","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jian-Piao","surname":"Cai","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Vincent Chi-Chung","surname":"Cheng","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Honglin","surname":"Chen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Christopher Kim-Ming","surname":"Hui","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Kwok-Yung","surname":"Yuen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1016/S0140-6736(20)30211-7","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Epidemiological and clinical characteristics of 99 cases of 2019 novel coronavirus pneumonia in Wuhan, China: a descriptive study","abstract":"Background\nIn December, 2019, a pneumonia associated with the 2019 novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV) emerged in Wuhan, China.\n\n We aimed to further clarify the epidemiological and clinical characteristics of 2019-nCoV pneumonia.\n\n\nMethods\nIn this retrospective, single-centre study, we included all confirmed cases of 2019-nCoV in Wuhan Jinyintan Hospital from Jan 1 to Jan 20, 2020. Cases were confirmed by real-time RT-PCR and were analysed for epidemiological, demographic, clinical, and radiological features and laboratory data.\n\n Outcomes were followed up until Jan 25, 2020.\nFindings\nOf the 99 patients with 2019-nCoV pneumonia, 49 (49%) had a history of exposure to the Huanan seafood market.\n\n The average age of the patients was 555 years (SD 131), including 67 men and 32 women.\n\n 2019-nCoV was detected in all patients by real-time RT-PCR.\n\n 50 (51%) patients had chronic diseases.\n\n Patients had clinical manifestations of fever (82 [83%] patients), cough (81 [82%] patients), shortness of breath (31 [31%] patients), muscle ache (11 [11%] patients), confusion (nine [9%] patients), headache (eight [8%] patients), sore throat (five [5%] patients), rhinorrhoea (four [4%] patients), chest pain (two [2%] patients), diarrhoea (two [2%] patients), and nausea and vomiting (one [1%] patient).\n\n According to imaging examination, 74 (75%) patients showed bilateral pneumonia, 14 (14%) patients showed multiple mottling and ground-glass opacity, and one (1%) patient had pneumothorax.\n\n 17 (17%) patients developed acute respiratory distress syndrome and, among them, 11 (11%) patients worsened in a short period of time and died of multiple organ failure.\n\n\nInterpretation\nThe 2019-nCoV infection was of clustering onset, is more likely to affect older males with comorbidities, and can result in severe and even fatal respiratory diseases such as acute respiratory distress syndrome.\n\n In general, characteristics of patients who died were in line with the MuLBSTA score, an early warning model for predicting mortality in viral pneumonia.\n\n Further investigation is needed to explore the applicability of the MuLBSTA score in predicting the risk of mortality in 2019-nCoV infection.\n\n\nFunding\nNational Key R&amp;D Program of China.\n\n\n","id":"PMC7135076","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Elsevier Ltd.","authors":[{"firstname":"Nanshan","surname":"Chen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Min","surname":"Zhou","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xuan","surname":"Dong","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jieming","surname":"Qu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Fengyun","surname":"Gong","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yang","surname":"Han","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yang","surname":"Qiu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jingli","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ying","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yuan","surname":"Wei","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jia'an","surname":"Xia","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ting","surname":"Yu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xinxin","surname":"Zhang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Li","surname":"Zhang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1101/2020.02.09.20021261","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The effect of travel restrictions on the spread of the 2019 novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV) outbreak","abstract":"id='P1'>Motivated by the rapid spread of a novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV) in Mainland China, we use a global metapopulation disease transmission model to project the impact of both domestic and international travel limitations on the national and international spread of the epidemic.\n The model is calibrated on the evidence of internationally imported cases before the implementation of the travel quarantine of Wuhan.\n By assuming a generation time of 7.5 days, the reproduction number is estimated to be 2.4 [90% CI 2.22.6].\n The median estimate for number of cases before the travel ban implementation on January 23, 2020 is 58,956 [90% CI 40,759  87,471] in Wuhan and 3,491 [90% CI 1,924  7,360] in other locations in Mainland China.\n The model shows that as of January 23, most Chinese cities had already received a considerable number of infected cases, and the travel quarantine delays the overall epidemic progression by only 3 to 5 days.\n The travel quarantine has a more marked effect at the international scale, where we estimate the number of case importations to be reduced by 80% until the end of February.\n Modeling results also indicate that sustained 90% travel restrictions to and from Mainland China only modestly affect the epidemic trajectory unless combined with a 50% or higher reduction of transmission in the community.\n","id":"PMC7216908","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory","authors":[{"firstname":"Matteo","surname":"Chinazzi","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jessica T.","surname":"Davis","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Marco","surname":"Ajelli","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Corrado","surname":"Gioannini","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Maria","surname":"Litvinova","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Stefano","surname":"Merler","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ana","surname":"Pastore y Piontti","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Luca","surname":"Rossi","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Kaiyuan","surname":"Sun","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ccile","surname":"Viboud","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xinyue","surname":"Xiong","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hongjie","surname":"Yu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"M. Elizabeth","surname":"Halloran","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ira M.","surname":"Longini","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Alessandro","surname":"Vespignani","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1186/1471-2334-10-82","date":"2010-03-30","title":"Entry screening to delay local transmission of 2009 pandemic influenza A (H1N1)","abstract":"Background\nAfter the WHO issued the global alert for 2009 pandemic influenza A (H1N1), many national health agencies began to screen travelers on entry in airports, ports and border crossings to try to delay local transmission.\n\n\nMethods\nWe reviewed entry screening policies adopted by different nations and ascertained dates of official report of the first laboratory-confirmed imported H1N1 case and the first laboratory-confirmed untraceable or 'local' H1N1 case.\n\n\nResults\nImplementation of entry screening policies was associated with on average additional 7-12 day delays in local transmission compared to nations that did not implement entry screening, with lower bounds of 95% confidence intervals consistent with no additional delays and upper bounds extending to 20-30 day additional delays.\n\n\nConclusions\nEntry screening may lead to short-term delays in local transmission of a novel strain of influenza virus.\n\n The resources required for implementation should be balanced against the expected benefits of entry screening.\n\n\n","id":"PMC3152767","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"BioMed Central","authors":[{"firstname":"Benjamin J","surname":"Cowling","email":"bcowling@hku.hk","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Lincoln LH","surname":"Lau","email":"lllau@hkusua.hku.hk","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Peng","surname":"Wu","email":"wupeng06@hkusua.hku.hk","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Helen WC","surname":"Wong","email":"helen.wong08@imperial.ac.uk","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Vicky J","surname":"Fang","email":"vickyf@hku.hk","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Steven","surname":"Riley","email":"steven.riley@hku.hk","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hiroshi","surname":"Nishiura","email":"h.nishiura@uu.nl","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1101/2020.02.04.20020495","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Using predicted imports of 2019-nCoV cases to determine locations that may not be identifying all imported cases","abstract":"id='P2'>Cases from the ongoing outbreak of atypical pneumonia caused by the 2019 novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV) exported from mainland China can lead to self-sustained outbreaks in other populations.\n Internationally imported cases are currently being reported in several different locations.\n Early detection of imported cases is critical for containment of the virus.\n Based on air travel volume estimates from Wuhan to international destinations and using a generalized linear regression model we identify locations which may potentially have undetected internationally imported cases.\n","id":"PMC7239086","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory","authors":[{"firstname":"PM","surname":"De Salazar","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"R","surname":"Niehus","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"A","surname":"Taylor","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"C","surname":"Buckee","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"M","surname":"Lipsitch","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.1073/pnas.0307506101","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Factors that make an infectious disease outbreak controllable","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.7554/eLife.05564","date":"2015-01-20","title":"Effectiveness of traveller screening for emerging pathogens is shaped by epidemiology and natural history of infection","abstract":"During outbreaks of high-consequence pathogens, airport screening programs have been deployed to curtail geographic spread of infection.\n The effectiveness of screening depends on several factors, including pathogen natural history and epidemiology, human behavior, and characteristics of the source epidemic.\n We developed a mathematical model to understand how these factors combine to influence screening outcomes.\n We analyzed screening programs for six emerging pathogens in the early and late stages of an epidemic.\n We show that the effectiveness of different screening tools depends strongly on pathogen natural history and epidemiological features, as well as human factors in implementation and compliance.\n For pathogens with longer incubation periods, exposure risk detection dominates in growing epidemics, while fever becomes a better target in stable or declining epidemics.\n For pathogens with short incubation, fever screening drives detection in any epidemic stage.\n However, even in the most optimistic scenario arrival screening will miss the majority of cases.\n","id":"PMC4337724","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"eLife Sciences Publications, Ltd","authors":[{"firstname":"Katelyn M","surname":"Gostic","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Adam J","surname":"Kucharski","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"James O","surname":"Lloyd-Smith","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Simon I","surname":"Hay","email":"NULL","contributions":"4"},{"firstname":"Simon I","surname":"Hay","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Simon I","surname":"Hay","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Simon I","surname":"Hay","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1056/NEJMoa2002032","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Clinical Characteristics of Coronavirus Disease 2019 in China","abstract":"Background\nSince December 2019, when coronavirus disease 2019 (Covid-19) emerged in Wuhan city and rapidly spread throughout China, data have been needed on the clinical characteristics of the affected patients.\n\n\nMethods\nWe extracted data regarding 1099 patients with laboratory-confirmed Covid-19 from 552 hospitals in 30 provinces, autonomous regions, and municipalities in mainland China through January 29, 2020. The primary composite end point was admission to an intensive care unit (ICU), the use of mechanical ventilation, or death.\n\n\nResults\nThe median age of the patients was 47 years; 41.9% of the patients were female.\n\n The primary composite end point occurred in 67 patients (6.1%), including 5.0% who were admitted to the ICU, 2.3% who underwent invasive mechanical ventilation, and 1.4% who died.\n\n Only 1.9% of the patients had a history of direct contact with wildlife.\n\n Among nonresidents of Wuhan, 72.3% had contact with residents of Wuhan, including 31.3% who had visited the city.\n\n The most common symptoms were fever (43.8% on admission and 88.7% during hospitalization) and cough (67.8%).\n\n Diarrhea was uncommon (3.8%).\n\n The median incubation period was 4 days (interquartile range, 2 to 7).\n\n On admission, ground-glass opacity was the most common radiologic finding on chest computed tomography (CT) (56.4%).\n\n No radiographic or CT abnormality was found in 157 of 877 patients (17.9%) with nonsevere disease and in 5 of 173 patients (2.9%) with severe disease.\n\n Lymphocytopenia was present in 83.2% of the patients on admission.\n\n\nConclusions\nDuring the first 2 months of the current outbreak, Covid-19 spread rapidly throughout China and caused varying degrees of illness.\n\n Patients often presented without fever, and many did not have abnormal radiologic findings.\n\n (Funded by the National Health Commission of China and others.\n\n)\n","id":"PMC7092819","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Massachusetts Medical Society","authors":[{"firstname":"Wei-jie","surname":"Guan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zheng-yi","surname":"Ni","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zheng-yi","surname":"Ni","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yu","surname":"Hu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Wen-hua","surname":"Liang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Chun-quan","surname":"Ou","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jian-xing","surname":"He","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Lei","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hong","surname":"Shan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Chun-liang","surname":"Lei","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"David S.C.","surname":"Hui","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Bin","surname":"Du","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Lan-juan","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Guang","surname":"Zeng","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Kwok-Yung","surname":"Yuen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ru-chong","surname":"Chen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Chun-li","surname":"Tang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Tao","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ping-yan","surname":"Chen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jie","surname":"Xiang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Shi-yue","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jin-lin","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zi-jing","surname":"Liang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yi-xiang","surname":"Peng","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Li","surname":"Wei","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yong","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ya-hua","surname":"Hu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Peng","surname":"Peng","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jian-ming","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ji-yang","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zhong","surname":"Chen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Gang","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zhi-jian","surname":"Zheng","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Shao-qin","surname":"Qiu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jie","surname":"Luo","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Chang-jiang","surname":"Ye","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Shao-yong","surname":"Zhu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Nan-shan","surname":"Zhong","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Coronavirus quarantine precautions around the world","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1056/NEJMc2001899","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Evidence of SARS-CoV-2 Infection in Returning Travelers from Wuhan, China","abstract":"","id":"PMC7121749","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Massachusetts Medical Society","authors":[{"firstname":"Sebastian","surname":"Hoehl","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Holger","surname":"Rabenau","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Holger","surname":"Rabenau","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Annemarie","surname":"Berger","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Marhild","surname":"Kortenbusch","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jindrich","surname":"Cinatl","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Denisa","surname":"Bojkova","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Pia","surname":"Behrens","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Pia","surname":"Behrens","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Boris","surname":"Bddinghaus","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Udo","surname":"Gtsch","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Frank","surname":"Naujoks","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Peter","surname":"Neumann","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Joscha","surname":"Schork","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Petra","surname":"Tiarks-Jungk","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Antoni","surname":"Walczok","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Markus","surname":"Eickmann","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Markus","surname":"Eickmann","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Maria J.G.T.","surname":"Vehreschild","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Maria J.G.T.","surname":"Vehreschild","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Gerrit","surname":"Kann","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Timo","surname":"Wolf","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ren","surname":"Gottschalk","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ren","surname":"Gottschalk","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Sandra","surname":"Ciesek","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Sandra","surname":"Ciesek","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1101/2020.02.20.20025619","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Clinical characteristics of 24 asymptomatic infections with COVID-19 screenedamong close contacts in Nanjing, China","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/S0140-6736(20)30183-5","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Clinical features of patients infected with 2019 novel coronavirus in Wuhan, China","abstract":"Background\nA recent cluster of pneumonia cases in Wuhan, China, was caused by a novel betacoronavirus, the 2019 novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV).\n\n We report the epidemiological, clinical, laboratory, and radiological characteristics and treatment and clinical outcomes of these patients.\n\n\nMethods\nAll patients with suspected 2019-nCoV were admitted to a designated hospital in Wuhan.\n\n We prospectively collected and analysed data on patients with laboratory-confirmed 2019-nCoV infection by real-time RT-PCR and next-generation sequencing.\n\n Data were obtained with standardised data collection forms shared by WHO and the International Severe Acute Respiratory and Emerging Infection Consortium from electronic medical records.\n\n Researchers also directly communicated with patients or their families to ascertain epidemiological and symptom data.\n\n Outcomes were also compared between patients who had been admitted to the intensive care unit (ICU) and those who had not.\n\n\nFindings\nBy Jan 2, 2020, 41 admitted hospital patients had been identified as having laboratory-confirmed 2019-nCoV infection.\n\n Most of the infected patients were men (30 [73%] of 41); less than half had underlying diseases (13 [32%]), including diabetes (eight [20%]), hypertension (six [15%]), and cardiovascular disease (six [15%]).\n\n Median age was 490 years (IQR 410580).\n\n 27 (66%) of 41 patients had been exposed to Huanan seafood market.\n\n One family cluster was found.\n\n Common symptoms at onset of illness were fever (40 [98%] of 41 patients), cough (31 [76%]), and myalgia or fatigue (18 [44%]); less common symptoms were sputum production (11 [28%] of 39), headache (three [8%] of 38), haemoptysis (two [5%] of 39), and diarrhoea (one [3%] of 38).\n\n Dyspnoea developed in 22 (55%) of 40 patients (median time from illness onset to dyspnoea 80 days [IQR 50130]).\n\n 26 (63%) of 41 patients had lymphopenia.\n\n All 41 patients had pneumonia with abnormal findings on chest CT.\n\n Complications included acute respiratory distress syndrome (12 [29%]), RNAaemia (six [15%]), acute cardiac injury (five [12%]) and secondary infection (four [10%]).\n\n 13 (32%) patients were admitted to an ICU and six (15%) died.\n\n Compared with non-ICU patients, ICU patients had higher plasma levels of IL2, IL7, IL10, GSCF, IP10, MCP1, MIP1A, and TNF?.\n\n\nInterpretation\nThe 2019-nCoV infection caused clusters of severe respiratory illness similar to severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus and was associated with ICU admission and high mortality.\n\n Major gaps in our knowledge of the origin, epidemiology, duration of human transmission, and clinical spectrum of disease need fulfilment by future studies.\n\n\nFunding\nMinistry of Science and Technology, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences, National Natural Science Foundation of China, and Beijing Municipal Science and Technology Commission.\n\n\n","id":"PMC7159299","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Elsevier Ltd.","authors":[{"firstname":"Chaolin","surname":"Huang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yeming","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xingwang","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Lili","surname":"Ren","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jianping","surname":"Zhao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yi","surname":"Hu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Li","surname":"Zhang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Guohui","surname":"Fan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jiuyang","surname":"Xu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xiaoying","surname":"Gu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zhenshun","surname":"Cheng","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ting","surname":"Yu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jiaan","surname":"Xia","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yuan","surname":"Wei","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Wenjuan","surname":"Wu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xuelei","surname":"Xie","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Wen","surname":"Yin","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hui","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Min","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yan","surname":"Xiao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hong","surname":"Gao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Li","surname":"Guo","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jungang","surname":"Xie","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Guangfa","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Rongmeng","surname":"Jiang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zhancheng","surname":"Gao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Qi","surname":"Jin","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jianwei","surname":"Wang","email":"wangjw28@163.com","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Bin","surname":"Cao","email":"caobin_ben@163.com","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Report 3: transmissibility of 2019-nCoV","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"South Korea and Vietnam are asking millions to stay home to avoid coronavirus as more people get infected and die outside of China","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/S0140-6736(20)30419-0","date":"1970-01-01","title":"A distinct name is needed for the new coronavirus","abstract":"","id":"PMC7124603","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Elsevier Ltd.","authors":[{"firstname":"Shibo","surname":"Jiang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zhengli","surname":"Shi","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yuelong","surname":"Shu","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jingdong","surname":"Song","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"George F","surname":"Gao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Wenjie","surname":"Tan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Deyin","surname":"Guo","email":"guodeyin@mail.sysu.edu.cn","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1101/2020.01.31.20019901","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Early dynamics of transmission and control of 2019-nCoV: a mathematical modelling study","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1101/2020.02.02.20020016","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The incubation period of 2019-nCoV from publicly reported confirmed cases: estimation and application","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1056/NEJMoa2001316","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Early Transmission Dynamics in Wuhan, China, of Novel CoronavirusInfected Pneumonia","abstract":"Background\nThe initial cases of novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV)infected pneumonia (NCIP) occurred in Wuhan, Hubei Province, China, in December 2019 and January 2020. We analyzed data on the first 425 confirmed cases in Wuhan to determine the epidemiologic characteristics of NCIP.\n\n\nMethods\nWe collected information on demographic characteristics, exposure history, and illness timelines of laboratory-confirmed cases of NCIP that had been reported by January 22, 2020. We described characteristics of the cases and estimated the key epidemiologic time-delay distributions.\n\n In the early period of exponential growth, we estimated the epidemic doubling time and the basic reproductive number.\n\n\nResults\nAmong the first 425 patients with confirmed NCIP, the median age was 59 years and 56% were male.\n\n The majority of cases (55%) with onset before January 1, 2020, were linked to the Huanan Seafood Wholesale Market, as compared with 8.6% of the subsequent cases.\n\n The mean incubation period was 5.2 days (95% confidence interval [CI], 4.1 to 7.0), with the 95th percentile of the distribution at 12.5 days.\n\n In its early stages, the epidemic doubled in size every 7.4 days.\n\n With a mean serial interval of 7.5 days (95% CI, 5.3 to 19), the basic reproductive number was estimated to be 2.2 (95% CI, 1.4 to 3.9).\n\n\nConclusions\nOn the basis of this information, there is evidence that human-to-human transmission has occurred among close contacts since the middle of December 2019. Considerable efforts to reduce transmission will be required to control outbreaks if similar dynamics apply elsewhere.\n\n Measures to prevent or reduce transmission should be implemented in populations at risk.\n\n (Funded by the Ministry of Science and Technology of China and others.\n\n)\n","id":"PMC7121484","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Massachusetts Medical Society","authors":[{"firstname":"Qun","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xuhua","surname":"Guan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Peng","surname":"Wu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xiaoye","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Lei","surname":"Zhou","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yeqing","surname":"Tong","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ruiqi","surname":"Ren","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Kathy S.M.","surname":"Leung","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Eric H.Y.","surname":"Lau","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jessica Y.","surname":"Wong","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xuesen","surname":"Xing","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Nijuan","surname":"Xiang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yang","surname":"Wu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Chao","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Qi","surname":"Chen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Dan","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Tian","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jing","surname":"Zhao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Man","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Wenxiao","surname":"Tu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Chuding","surname":"Chen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Lianmei","surname":"Jin","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Rui","surname":"Yang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Qi","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Suhua","surname":"Zhou","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Rui","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hui","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yinbo","surname":"Luo","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yuan","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ge","surname":"Shao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Huan","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zhongfa","surname":"Tao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yang","surname":"Yang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zhiqiang","surname":"Deng","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Boxi","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zhitao","surname":"Ma","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yanping","surname":"Zhang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Guoqing","surname":"Shi","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Tommy T.Y.","surname":"Lam","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Joseph T.","surname":"Wu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"George F.","surname":"Gao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Benjamin J.","surname":"Cowling","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Bo","surname":"Yang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Bo","surname":"Yang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Gabriel M.","surname":"Leung","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zijian","surname":"Feng","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1101/2020.01.25.919787","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Time-varying transmission dynamics of novel coronavirus pneumonia in China","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1038/nature04153","date":"2005-08-22","title":"Superspreading and the effect of individual variation on disease emergence","abstract":"Supplementary information\nThe online version of this article (doi:10.1038/nature04153) contains supplementary material, which is available to authorized users.\n\n\n","id":"PMC7094981","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Nature Publishing Group UK","authors":[{"firstname":"J. O.","surname":"Lloyd-Smith","email":"jls@nature.berkeley.edu","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"S. J.","surname":"Schreiber","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"P. E.","surname":"Kopp","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"W. M.","surname":"Getz","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"5 million left Wuhan before lockdown, 1,000 new coronavirus cases expected in city","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1136/bmj.g6202","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Airport screening for ebola: will it make a difference?","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"A Chinese embassy in Paris tracked down a woman who gloated on social media about cheating airport detection with a medicine that lowered her fever","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/j.jtbi.2008.04.011","date":"1970-01-01","title":"A methodology for performing global uncertainty and sensitivity analysis in systems biology","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1101/2020.02.20.20025866","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Estimating the asymptomatic ratio of 2019 novel coronavirus onboard the princess cruises ship, 2020","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1101/2020.02.13.20022707","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Quantifying bias of COVID-19 prevalence and severity estimates in Wuhan, China that depend on reported cases in international travelers","abstract":"id='P4'>Risk of COVID-19 infection in Wuhan has been estimated using imported case counts of international travelers, often under the assumption that all cases in travelers are ascertained.\n Recent work indicates variation among countries in detection capacity for imported cases.\n Singapore has historically had very strong epidemiological surveillance and contact-tracing capacity and has shown in the COVID-19 epidemic evidence of a high sensitivity of case detection.\n We therefore used a Bayesian modeling approach to estimate the relative imported case detection capacity for other countries compared to that of Singapore.\n We estimate that the global ability to detect imported cases is 38% (95% HPDI 22%  64%) of Singapores capacity.\n Equivalently, an estimate of 2.8 (95% HPDI 1.5  4.4) times the current number of imported cases, could have been detected, if all countries had had the same detection capacity as Singapore.\n Using the second component of the Global Health Security index to stratify likely case-detection capacities, we found that the ability to detect imported cases relative to Singapore among high surveillance locations is 40% (95% HPDI 22%  67%), among intermediate surveillance locations it is 37% (95% HPDI 18%  68%), and among low surveillance locations it is 11% (95% HPDI 0%  42%).\n Using a simple mathematical model, we further find that treating all travelers as if they were residents (rather than accounting for the brief stay of some of these travelers in Wuhan) can modestly contribute to underestimation of prevalence as well.\n We conclude that estimates of case counts in Wuhan based on assumptions of perfect detection in travelers may be underestimated by several fold, and severity correspondingly overestimated by several fold.\n Undetected cases are likely in countries around the world, with greater risk in countries of low detection capacity and high connectivity to the epicenter of the outbreak.\n","id":"PMC7239063","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory","authors":[{"firstname":"Rene","surname":"Niehus","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Pablo M.","surname":"De Salazar","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Aimee R.","surname":"Taylor","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Marc","surname":"Lipsitch","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.3390/jcm9020419","date":"2020-02-03","title":"The Rate of Underascertainment of Novel Coronavirus (2019-nCoV) Infection: Estimation Using Japanese Passengers Data on Evacuation Flights","abstract":"From 29 to 31 January 2020, a total of 565 Japanese citizens were evacuated from Wuhan, China on three chartered flights.\n All passengers were screened upon arrival in Japan for symptoms consistent with novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV) infection and tested for presence of the virus.\n Assuming that the mean detection window of the virus can be informed by the mean serial interval (estimated at 7.5 days), the ascertainment rate of infection was estimated at 9.2% (95% confidence interval: 5.0, 20.0).\n This indicates that the incidence of infection in Wuhan can be estimated at 20,767 infected individuals, including those with asymptomatic and mildly symptomatic infections.\n The infection fatality risk (IFR)the actual risk of death among all infected individualsis therefore 0.3% to 0.6%, which may be comparable to Asian influenza pandemic of 19571958.","id":"PMC7074297","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"MDPI","authors":[{"firstname":"Hiroshi","surname":"Nishiura","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Tetsuro","surname":"Kobayashi","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Tetsuro","surname":"Kobayashi","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yichi","surname":"Yang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Katsuma","surname":"Hayashi","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Takeshi","surname":"Miyama","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ryo","surname":"Kinoshita","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Natalie M.","surname":"Linton","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Natalie M.","surname":"Linton","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Sung-mok","surname":"Jung","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Sung-mok","surname":"Jung","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Baoyin","surname":"Yuan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Baoyin","surname":"Yuan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ayako","surname":"Suzuki","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Andrei R.","surname":"Akhmetzhanov","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1371/journal.pone.0014490","date":"2010-12-01","title":"Thermal Image Scanning for Influenza Border Screening: Results of an Airport Screening Study","abstract":"Background\nInfrared thermal image scanners (ITIS) appear an attractive option for the mass screening of travellers for influenza, but there are no published data on their performance in airports.\n\n\nMethods\nITIS was used to measure cutaneous temperature in 1275 airline travellers who had agreed to tympanic temperature measurement and respiratory sampling.\n\n The prediction by ITIS of tympanic temperature (37.8C and 37.5C) and of influenza infection was assessed using Receiver Operating Characteristic (ROC) curves and estimated sensitivity, specificity and positive predictive value (PPV).\n\n\nFindings\nUsing front of face ITIS for prediction of tympanic temperature ?37.8C, the area under the ROC curve was 0.86 (95%CI 0.750.97) and setting sensitivity at 86% gave specificity of 71%.\n\n The PPV in this population of travellers, of whom 0.5% were febrile using this definition, was 1.5%.\n\n We identified influenza virus infection in 30 travellers (3 Type A and 27 Type B).\n\n For ITIS prediction of influenza infection the area under the ROC curve was 0.66 (0.560.75), a sensitivity of 87% gave specificity of 39%, and PPV of 2.8%.\n\n None of the 30 influenza-positive travellers had tympanic temperature ?37.8C at screening (95%CI 0% to 12%); three had no influenza symptoms.\n\n\nConclusion\nITIS performed moderately well in detecting fever but in this study, during a seasonal epidemic of predominantly influenza type B, the proportion of influenza-infected travellers who were febrile was low and ITIS were not much better than chance at identifying travellers likely to be influenza-infected.\n\n Although febrile illness is more common in influenza A infections than influenza B infections, many influenza A infections are afebrile.\n\n Our findings therefore suggest that ITIS is unlikely to be effective for entry screening of travellers to detect influenza infection with the intention of preventing entry of the virus into a country.\n\n\n","id":"PMC3016318","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Public Library of Science","authors":[{"firstname":"Patricia C.","surname":"Priest","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Alasdair R.","surname":"Duncan","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Lance C.","surname":"Jennings","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Michael G.","surname":"Baker","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Benjamin J.","surname":"Cowling","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Benjamin J.","surname":"Cowling","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.2807/1560-7917.ES.2020.25.5.2000080","date":"2020-02-06","title":"Effectiveness of airport screening at detecting travellers infected with novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV)","abstract":"We evaluated effectiveness of thermal passenger screening for 2019-nCoV infection at airport exit and entry to inform public health decision-making.\n In our baseline scenario, we estimated that 46% (95% confidence interval: 36 to 58) of infected travellers would not be detected, depending on incubation period, sensitivity of exit and entry screening, and proportion of asymptomatic cases.\n Airport screening is unlikely to detect a sufficient proportion of 2019-nCoV infected travellers to avoid entry of infected travellers.\n","id":"PMC7014668","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC)","authors":[{"firstname":"Billy J","surname":"Quilty","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Sam","surname":"Clifford","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Sam","surname":"Clifford","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"NULL","surname":"NULL","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Stefan","surname":"Flasche","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Rosalind M","surname":"Eggo","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1101/2020.01.23.20018549","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Novel coronavirus 2019-nCoV: early estimation of epidemiological parameters and epidemic predictions","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.2807/1560-7917.ES.2020.25.4.2000058","date":"2020-01-30","title":"Pattern of early human-to-human transmission of Wuhan 2019 novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV), December 2019 to January 2020","abstract":"Since December 2019, China has been experiencing a large outbreak of a novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV) which can cause respiratory disease and severe pneumonia.\n We estimated the basic reproduction number R0 of 2019-nCoV to be around 2.2 (90% high density interval: 1.43.8), indicating the potential for sustained human-to-human transmission.\n Transmission characteristics appear to be of similar magnitude to severe acute respiratory syndrome-related coronavirus (SARS-CoV) and pandemic influenza, indicating a risk of global spread.\n","id":"PMC7001239","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC)","authors":[{"firstname":"Julien","surname":"Riou","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Christian L.","surname":"Althaus","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The novel coronavirus, 2019-nCoV, is highly contagious and more infectious than initially estimated","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Shadowy Church Is at Center of Coronavirus Outbreak in South Korea","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Some Schengen visa centers in China reopen, others remain closed indefinitely","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"China's COVID-19 death toll tops 2,000; Iran reports first cases","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"As cruise ship COVID-19 numbers climb, nations evacuate passengers","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"China COVID-19 cases rise, as do worries over Diamond Princess risk","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.3390/jcm9020462","date":"2020-02-06","title":"Estimation of the Transmission Risk of the 2019-nCoV and Its Implication for Public Health Interventions","abstract":"Since the emergence of the first cases in Wuhan, China, the novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV) infection has been quickly spreading out to other provinces and neighboring countries.\n Estimation of the basic reproduction number by means of mathematical modeling can be helpful for determining the potential and severity of an outbreak and providing critical information for identifying the type of disease interventions and intensity.\n A deterministic compartmental model was devised based on the clinical progression of the disease, epidemiological status of the individuals, and intervention measures.\n The estimations based on likelihood and model analysis show that the control reproduction number may be as high as 6.47 (95% CI 5.717.23).\n Sensitivity analyses show that interventions, such as intensive contact tracing followed by quarantine and isolation, can effectively reduce the control reproduction number and transmission risk, with the effect of travel restriction adopted by Wuhan on 2019-nCoV infection in Beijing being almost equivalent to increasing quarantine by a 100 thousand baseline value.\n It is essential to assess how the expensive, resource-intensive measures implemented by the Chinese authorities can contribute to the prevention and control of the 2019-nCoV infection, and how long they should be maintained.\n Under the most restrictive measures, the outbreak is expected to peak within two weeks (since 23 January 2020) with a significant low peak value.\n With travel restriction (no imported exposed individuals to Beijing), the number of infected individuals in seven days will decrease by 91.14% in Beijing, compared with the scenario of no travel restriction.\n","id":"PMC7074281","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"MDPI","authors":[{"firstname":"Biao","surname":"Tang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xia","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Qian","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Nicola Luigi","surname":"Bragazzi","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Sanyi","surname":"Tang","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Sanyi","surname":"Tang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yanni","surname":"Xiao","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Yanni","surname":"Xiao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jianhong","surname":"Wu","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.1016/j.puhe.2015.07.023","date":"2015-07-12","title":"Comparison of Infrared Thermal Detection Systems for mass fever screening in a tropical healthcare setting","abstract":"Objectives\nFever screening systems, such as Infrared Thermal Detection Systems (ITDS), have been used for rapid identification of potential cases during respiratory disease outbreaks for public health management.\n\n ITDS detect a difference between the subject and ambient temperature, making deployment in hot climates more challenging.\n\n This study, conducted in Singapore, a tropical city, evaluates the accuracy of three different ITDS for fever detection compared with traditional oral thermometry and self-reporting in a clinical setting.\n\n\nStudy design\nThis study is a prospective operational evaluation conducted in the Singapore military on all personnel seeking medical care at a high-volume primary healthcare centre over a one week period in February 2014.\nMethods\nThree ITDS, the STE Infrared Fever Screening System (IFSS), the Omnisense Sentry MKIII and the handheld Quick Shot Infrared Thermoscope HT-F03B, were evaluated.\n\n Temperature measurements were taken outside the healthcare centre, under a sheltered walkway and compared to oral temperature.\n\n Subjects were asked if they had fever.\n\n\nResults\nThere were 430 subjects screened, of whom 34 participants (7.9%) had confirmed fever, determined by oral thermometer measurement.\n\n The handheld infrared thermoscope had a very low sensitivity (29.4%), but a high specificity (96.8%).\n\n The STE ITDS had a moderate sensitivity (44.1%), but a very high specificity (99.1%).\n\n Self-reported fevers showed good sensitivity (88.2%) and specificity (93.9%).\n\n The sensitivity of the Omnisense ITDS (89.7%) was the highest among the three methods with good specificity (92.0%).\n\n\nConclusion\nThe new generation Omnisense ITDS displayed a relatively high sensitivity and specificity for fever.\n\n Though it has a lower sensitivity, the old generation STE ITDS system showed a very high specificity.\n\n Self-reporting of fever was reliable.\n\n The handheld thermograph should not be used as a fever-screening tool under tropical conditions.\n\n\n","id":"PMC7111721","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"The Royal Society for Public Health. Published by Elsevier Ltd.","authors":[{"firstname":"M.R.","surname":"Tay","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Y.L.","surname":"Low","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"X.","surname":"Zhao","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"A.R.","surname":"Cook","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"V.J.","surname":"Lee","email":"vernonljm@hotmail.com","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.3760/cma.j.issn.0254-6450.2020.02.003","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The epidemiological characteristics of an outbreak of 2019 novel coronavirus diseases (COVID-19)","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) Situation report 37","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) Situation report - 30","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Management of ill travellers at points of entry - international airports,seaports and ground crossings - in the context of COVID -19 outbreak","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Updated WHO advice for international traffic in relation to the outbreak of the novel coronavirus 2019-nCoV","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/S0140-6736(20)30260-9","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Nowcasting and forecasting the potential domestic and international spread of the 2019-nCoV outbreak originating in Wuhan, China: a modelling study","abstract":"Background\nSince Dec 31, 2019, the Chinese city of Wuhan has reported an outbreak of atypical pneumonia caused by the 2019 novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV).\n\n Cases have been exported to other Chinese cities, as well as internationally, threatening to trigger a global outbreak.\n\n Here, we provide an estimate of the size of the epidemic in Wuhan on the basis of the number of cases exported from Wuhan to cities outside mainland China and forecast the extent of the domestic and global public health risks of epidemics, accounting for social and non-pharmaceutical prevention interventions.\n\n\nMethods\nWe used data from Dec 31, 2019, to Jan 28, 2020, on the number of cases exported from Wuhan internationally (known days of symptom onset from Dec 25, 2019, to Jan 19, 2020) to infer the number of infections in Wuhan from Dec 1, 2019, to Jan 25, 2020. Cases exported domestically were then estimated.\n\n We forecasted the national and global spread of 2019-nCoV, accounting for the effect of the metropolitan-wide quarantine of Wuhan and surrounding cities, which began Jan 2324, 2020. We used data on monthly flight bookings from the Official Aviation Guide and data on human mobility across more than 300 prefecture-level cities in mainland China from the Tencent database.\n\n Data on confirmed cases were obtained from the reports published by the Chinese Center for Disease Control and Prevention.\n\n Serial interval estimates were based on previous studies of severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus (SARS-CoV).\n\n A susceptible-exposed-infectious-recovered metapopulation model was used to simulate the epidemics across all major cities in China.\n\n The basic reproductive number was estimated using Markov Chain Monte Carlo methods and presented using the resulting posterior mean and 95% credibile interval (CrI).\n\n\nFindings\nIn our baseline scenario, we estimated that the basic reproductive number for 2019-nCoV was 268 (95% CrI 247286) and that 75?815 individuals (95% CrI 37?304130?330) have been infected in Wuhan as of Jan 25, 2020. The epidemic doubling time was 64 days (95% CrI 5871).\n\n We estimated that in the baseline scenario, Chongqing, Beijing, Shanghai, Guangzhou, and Shenzhen had imported 461 (95% CrI 227805), 113 (57193), 98 (49168), 111 (56191), and 80 (40139) infections from Wuhan, respectively.\n\n If the transmissibility of 2019-nCoV were similar everywhere domestically and over time, we inferred that epidemics are already growing exponentially in multiple major cities of China with a lag time behind the Wuhan outbreak of about 12 weeks.\n\n\nInterpretation\nGiven that 2019-nCoV is no longer contained within Wuhan, other major Chinese cities are probably sustaining localised outbreaks.\n\n Large cities overseas with close transport links to China could also become outbreak epicentres, unless substantial public health interventions at both the population and personal levels are implemented immediately.\n\n Independent self-sustaining outbreaks in major cities globally could become inevitable because of substantial exportation of presymptomatic cases and in the absence of large-scale public health interventions.\n\n Preparedness plans and mitigation interventions should be readied for quick deployment globally.\n\n\nFunding\nHealth and Medical Research Fund (Hong Kong, China).\n\n\n","id":"PMC7159271","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Elsevier Ltd.","authors":[{"firstname":"Joseph T","surname":"Wu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Kathy","surname":"Leung","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Gabriel M","surname":"Leung","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1093/infdis/jiaa077","date":"2020-02-15","title":"A Familial Cluster of Infection Associated With the 2019 Novel Coronavirus Indicating Possible Person-to-Person Transmission During the Incubation Period","abstract":"An ongoing outbreak of pneumonia associated with 2019 novel coronavirus was reported in China.\n It is unclear whether the virus is infective exists during the incubation period, although person-to-person transmission has been reported elsewhere.\n We report the epidemiological features of a familial cluster of 4 patients in Shanghai, including an 88-year-old man with limited mobility who was exposed only to asymptomatic family members whose symptoms developed later.\n The epidemiological evidence has shown possible transmission of 2019 novel coronavirus during the incubation period.\n","id":"PMC7107453","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Oxford University Press","authors":[{"firstname":"Ping","surname":"Yu","email":"jxcdcyp@126.com","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jiang","surname":"Zhu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zhengdong","surname":"Zhang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yingjun","surname":"Han","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV) cases in Hong Kong and implications for further spread","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[{"doi":"10.1016/j.jinf.2020.01.014","date":"2020-01-21","title":"Emergence of a novel coronavirus causing respiratory illness from Wuhan, China","abstract":"","id":"PMC7127306","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"The British Infection Association. Published by Elsevier Ltd.","authors":[{"firstname":"Julian W.","surname":"Tang","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Paul A.","surname":"Tambyah","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"David S.C.","surname":"Hui","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Wuhan coronavirus outbreak.2 February 2020. https://www.worldometers.info/coronavirus/.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Government of Hong Kong SAR. Cross-boundary passenger traffic estimation and arrangements for Lunar New Year festive period. 7 Feb 2018. https://www.info.gov.hk/gia/general/201802/07/P2018020700291.htm.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The Japan Times. Japan reports first domestic transmission of coronavirus. 28 January 2020. https://www.japantimes.co.jp/news/2020/01/28/national/japan-first-domestic-transmission-coronavirus/.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Global News. German man who never visited china catches coronavirus through human-to-human transmission. 28 January 2020. https://globalnews.ca/news/6472303/german-coronavirus-human-to-human-transmission/.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"CNN Health. First case of person-to-person transmission of Wuhan virus in the US confirmed. 30 January 2020. https://edition.cnn.com/2020/01/30/health/coronavirus-illinois-person-to-person-cdc/index.html.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/S0140-6736(20)30154-9","date":"1970-01-01","title":"A familial cluster of pneumonia associated with the 2019 novel coronavirus indicating person-to-person transmission: a study of a family cluster","abstract":"Background\nAn ongoing outbreak of pneumonia associated with a novel coronavirus was reported in Wuhan city, Hubei province, China.\n\n Affected patients were geographically linked with a local wet market as a potential source.\n\n No data on person-to-person or nosocomial transmission have been published to date.\n\n\nMethods\nIn this study, we report the epidemiological, clinical, laboratory, radiological, and microbiological findings of five patients in a family cluster who presented with unexplained pneumonia after returning to Shenzhen, Guangdong province, China, after a visit to Wuhan, and an additional family member who did not travel to Wuhan.\n\n Phylogenetic analysis of genetic sequences from these patients were done.\n\n\nFindings\nFrom Jan 10, 2020, we enrolled a family of six patients who travelled to Wuhan from Shenzhen between Dec 29, 2019 and Jan 4, 2020. Of six family members who travelled to Wuhan, five were identified as infected with the novel coronavirus.\n\n Additionally, one family member, who did not travel to Wuhan, became infected with the virus after several days of contact with four of the family members.\n\n None of the family members had contacts with Wuhan markets or animals, although two had visited a Wuhan hospital.\n\n Five family members (aged 3666 years) presented with fever, upper or lower respiratory tract symptoms, or diarrhoea, or a combination of these 36 days after exposure.\n\n They presented to our hospital (The University of Hong Kong-Shenzhen Hospital, Shenzhen) 610 days after symptom onset.\n\n They and one asymptomatic child (aged 10 years) had radiological ground-glass lung opacities.\n\n Older patients (aged &gt;60 years) had more systemic symptoms, extensive radiological ground-glass lung changes, lymphopenia, thrombocytopenia, and increased C-reactive protein and lactate dehydrogenase levels.\n\n The nasopharyngeal or throat swabs of these six patients were negative for known respiratory microbes by point-of-care multiplex RT-PCR, but five patients (four adults and the child) were RT-PCR positive for genes encoding the internal RNA-dependent RNA polymerase and surface Spike protein of this novel coronavirus, which were confirmed by Sanger sequencing.\n\n Phylogenetic analysis of these five patients' RT-PCR amplicons and two full genomes by next-generation sequencing showed that this is a novel coronavirus, which is closest to the bat severe acute respiatory syndrome (SARS)-related coronaviruses found in Chinese horseshoe bats.\n\n\nInterpretation\nOur findings are consistent with person-to-person transmission of this novel coronavirus in hospital and family settings, and the reports of infected travellers in other geographical regions.\n\n\nFunding\nThe Shaw Foundation Hong Kong, Michael Seak-Kan Tong, Respiratory Viral Research Foundation Limited, Hui Ming, Hui Hoy and Chow Sin Lan Charity Fund Limited, Marina Man-Wai Lee, the Hong Kong Hainan Commercial Association South China Microbiology Research Fund, Sanming Project of Medicine (Shenzhen), and High Level-Hospital Program (Guangdong Health Commission).\n\n\n","id":"PMC7159286","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Elsevier Ltd.","authors":[{"firstname":"Jasper Fuk-Woo","surname":"Chan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Shuofeng","surname":"Yuan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Kin-Hang","surname":"Kok","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Kelvin Kai-Wang","surname":"To","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hin","surname":"Chu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jin","surname":"Yang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Fanfan","surname":"Xing","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jieling","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Cyril Chik-Yan","surname":"Yip","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Rosana Wing-Shan","surname":"Poon","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hoi-Wah","surname":"Tsoi","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Simon Kam-Fai","surname":"Lo","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Kwok-Hung","surname":"Chan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Vincent Kwok-Man","surname":"Poon","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Wan-Mui","surname":"Chan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jonathan Daniel","surname":"Ip","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jian-Piao","surname":"Cai","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Vincent Chi-Chung","surname":"Cheng","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Honglin","surname":"Chen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Christopher Kim-Ming","surname":"Hui","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Kwok-Yung","surname":"Yuen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1016/S0140-6736(20)30183-5","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Clinical features of patients infected with 2019 novel coronavirus in Wuhan, China","abstract":"Background\nA recent cluster of pneumonia cases in Wuhan, China, was caused by a novel betacoronavirus, the 2019 novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV).\n\n We report the epidemiological, clinical, laboratory, and radiological characteristics and treatment and clinical outcomes of these patients.\n\n\nMethods\nAll patients with suspected 2019-nCoV were admitted to a designated hospital in Wuhan.\n\n We prospectively collected and analysed data on patients with laboratory-confirmed 2019-nCoV infection by real-time RT-PCR and next-generation sequencing.\n\n Data were obtained with standardised data collection forms shared by WHO and the International Severe Acute Respiratory and Emerging Infection Consortium from electronic medical records.\n\n Researchers also directly communicated with patients or their families to ascertain epidemiological and symptom data.\n\n Outcomes were also compared between patients who had been admitted to the intensive care unit (ICU) and those who had not.\n\n\nFindings\nBy Jan 2, 2020, 41 admitted hospital patients had been identified as having laboratory-confirmed 2019-nCoV infection.\n\n Most of the infected patients were men (30 [73%] of 41); less than half had underlying diseases (13 [32%]), including diabetes (eight [20%]), hypertension (six [15%]), and cardiovascular disease (six [15%]).\n\n Median age was 490 years (IQR 410580).\n\n 27 (66%) of 41 patients had been exposed to Huanan seafood market.\n\n One family cluster was found.\n\n Common symptoms at onset of illness were fever (40 [98%] of 41 patients), cough (31 [76%]), and myalgia or fatigue (18 [44%]); less common symptoms were sputum production (11 [28%] of 39), headache (three [8%] of 38), haemoptysis (two [5%] of 39), and diarrhoea (one [3%] of 38).\n\n Dyspnoea developed in 22 (55%) of 40 patients (median time from illness onset to dyspnoea 80 days [IQR 50130]).\n\n 26 (63%) of 41 patients had lymphopenia.\n\n All 41 patients had pneumonia with abnormal findings on chest CT.\n\n Complications included acute respiratory distress syndrome (12 [29%]), RNAaemia (six [15%]), acute cardiac injury (five [12%]) and secondary infection (four [10%]).\n\n 13 (32%) patients were admitted to an ICU and six (15%) died.\n\n Compared with non-ICU patients, ICU patients had higher plasma levels of IL2, IL7, IL10, GSCF, IP10, MCP1, MIP1A, and TNF?.\n\n\nInterpretation\nThe 2019-nCoV infection caused clusters of severe respiratory illness similar to severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus and was associated with ICU admission and high mortality.\n\n Major gaps in our knowledge of the origin, epidemiology, duration of human transmission, and clinical spectrum of disease need fulfilment by future studies.\n\n\nFunding\nMinistry of Science and Technology, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences, National Natural Science Foundation of China, and Beijing Municipal Science and Technology Commission.\n\n\n","id":"PMC7159299","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Elsevier Ltd.","authors":[{"firstname":"Chaolin","surname":"Huang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yeming","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xingwang","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Lili","surname":"Ren","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jianping","surname":"Zhao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yi","surname":"Hu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Li","surname":"Zhang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Guohui","surname":"Fan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jiuyang","surname":"Xu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xiaoying","surname":"Gu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zhenshun","surname":"Cheng","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ting","surname":"Yu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jiaan","surname":"Xia","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yuan","surname":"Wei","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Wenjuan","surname":"Wu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xuelei","surname":"Xie","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Wen","surname":"Yin","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hui","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Min","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yan","surname":"Xiao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hong","surname":"Gao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Li","surname":"Guo","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jungang","surname":"Xie","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Guangfa","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Rongmeng","surname":"Jiang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zhancheng","surname":"Gao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Qi","surname":"Jin","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jianwei","surname":"Wang","email":"wangjw28@163.com","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Bin","surname":"Cao","email":"caobin_ben@163.com","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Al Jazeera. Hong Kong cancels Chinese New Year celebrations. 18 January 2020. https://www.aljazeera.com/news/2020/01/hong-kong-cancels-chinese-year-celebrations-200118140832768.html.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The Washington Post. Chinese cities cancel New Year celebrations, travel ban widens in effort to stop coronavirus outbreak. 24 January 2020. https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/coronavirus-china-wuhan-latest/2020/01/23/2dc947a8-3d45-11ea-afe2-090eb37b60b1_story.html.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1098/rsif.2017.0838","date":"2018-01-02","title":"Temporal variation of human encounters and the number of locations in which they occur: a longitudinal study of Hong Kong residents","abstract":"Patterns of social contact between individuals are important for the transmission of many pathogens and shaping patterns of immunity at the population scale.\n To refine our understanding of how human social behaviour may change over time, we conducted a longitudinal study of Hong Kong residents.\n We recorded the social contact patterns for 1450 individuals, up to four times each between May 2012 and September 2013. We found individuals made contact with an average of 12.5 people within 2.9 geographical locations, and spent an average estimated total duration of 9.1 h in contact with others during a day.\n Distributions of the number of contacts and locations in which contacts were made were not significantly different between study waves.\n Encounters were assortative by age, and the age mixing pattern was broadly consistent across study waves.\n Fitting regression models, we examined the association of contact rates (number of contacts, total duration of contact, number of locations) with covariates and calculated the inter- and intra-participant variation in contact rates.\n Participant age was significantly associated with the number of contacts made, the total duration of contact and the number of locations in which contact occurred, with children and parental-age adults having the highest rates of contact.\n The number of contacts and contact duration increased with the number of contact locations.\n Intra-individual variation in contact rate was consistently greater than inter-individual variation.\n Despite substantial individual-level variation, remarkable consistency was observed in contact mixing at the population scale.\n This suggests that aggregate measures of mixing behaviour derived from cross-sectional information may be appropriate for population-scale modelling purposes, and that if more detailed models of social interactions are required for improved public health modelling, further studies are needed to understand the social processes driving intra-individual variation.\n","id":"PMC5805989","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"The Royal Society","authors":[{"firstname":"Kin On","surname":"Kwok","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ben","surname":"Cowling","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Ben","surname":"Cowling","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Vivian","surname":"Wei","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Steven","surname":"Riley","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jonathan M.","surname":"Read","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"South China Morning Post. Hong Kong schools, kindergartens closed until at least March 2 as coronavirus fears grow, three universities take similar action. 30 January 2020. https://www.scmp.com/news/hong-kong/education/article/3048305/hong-kong-universities-suspend-classes-until-march-china.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"South China Morning Post. China coronavirus: hong kong will ban anyone who has been to Hubei province from entering city, in response to mounting calls to tighten border checks. 26 January 2020. https://www.scmp.com/news/hong-kong/health-environment/article/3047689/china-coronavirus-hong-kong-has-its-sixth-patient.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Potential presymptomatic transmission of SARS-CoV-2, Zhejiang province, China, 2020","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[{"doi":"10.2807/1560-7917.ES.2020.25.3.2000045","date":"2020-01-22","title":"Detection of 2019 novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV) by real-time RT-PCR","abstract":"Background\nThe ongoing outbreak of the recently emerged novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV) poses a challenge for public health laboratories as virus isolates are unavailable while there is growing evidence that the outbreak is more widespread than initially thought, and international spread through travellers does already occur.\n\n\nAim\nWe aimed to develop and deploy robust diagnostic methodology for use in public health laboratory settings without having virus material available.\n\n\nMethods\nHere we present a validated diagnostic workflow for 2019-nCoV, its design relying on close genetic relatedness of 2019-nCoV with SARS coronavirus, making use of synthetic nucleic acid technology.\n\n\nResults\nThe workflow reliably detects 2019-nCoV, and further discriminates 2019-nCoV from SARS-CoV.\n\n Through coordination between academic and public laboratories, we confirmed assay exclusivity based on 297 original clinical specimens containing a full spectrum of human respiratory viruses.\n\n Control material is made available through European Virus Archive  Global (EVAg), a European Union infrastructure project.\n\n\nConclusion\nThe present study demonstrates the enormous response capacity achieved through coordination of academic and public laboratories in national and European research networks.\n\n\n","id":"PMC6988269","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC)","authors":[{"firstname":"Victor M","surname":"Corman","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Olfert","surname":"Landt","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Marco","surname":"Kaiser","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Richard","surname":"Molenkamp","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Adam","surname":"Meijer","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Daniel KW","surname":"Chu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Tobias","surname":"Bleicker","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Sebastian","surname":"Brnink","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Julia","surname":"Schneider","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Marie Luisa","surname":"Schmidt","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Daphne GJC","surname":"Mulders","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Bart L","surname":"Haagmans","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Bas","surname":"van der Veer","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Sharon","surname":"van den Brink","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Lisa","surname":"Wijsman","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Gabriel","surname":"Goderski","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jean-Louis","surname":"Romette","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Joanna","surname":"Ellis","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Maria","surname":"Zambon","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Malik","surname":"Peiris","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Herman","surname":"Goossens","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Chantal","surname":"Reusken","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Marion PG","surname":"Koopmans","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Christian","surname":"Drosten","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"COVID-19 control in China during mass population movements at New Year","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Updates on the epidemic","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Big data! The travel volume predictions during Lunar New Year holiday in 2020","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The press conference on COVID-19 in Hubei","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Location-based services of Baidu database","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1101/2020.02.06.20020974","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Clinical characteristics of 2019 novel coronavirus infection in China","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The State Council's announcement on the arrangement of public holidays in 2020","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The State Council's announcement on extending the Lunar New Year Holiday in 2020","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The press conference on Jan 26, 2020","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The announcement of cancellations of major events including temple fairs in Beijing","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The announcement from Wuhan's headquarter on the novel coronavirus prevention and control","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Spontaneous behavioural changes in response to epidemics","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Public health interventions and epidemic intensity during the 1918 influenza pandemic","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Effectiveness of workplace social distancing measures in reducing influenza transmission: a systematic review","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Strategies for containing an emerging influenza pandemic in Southeast Asia","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Targeted social distancing designs for pandemic influenza","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Quantifying social distancing arising from pandemic influenza","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Nonpharmaceutical interventions implemented by US cities during the 1918-1919 influenza pandemic","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1056/NEJMoa2001316","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Early Transmission Dynamics in Wuhan, China, of Novel CoronavirusInfected Pneumonia","abstract":"Background\nThe initial cases of novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV)infected pneumonia (NCIP) occurred in Wuhan, Hubei Province, China, in December 2019 and January 2020. We analyzed data on the first 425 confirmed cases in Wuhan to determine the epidemiologic characteristics of NCIP.\n\n\nMethods\nWe collected information on demographic characteristics, exposure history, and illness timelines of laboratory-confirmed cases of NCIP that had been reported by January 22, 2020. We described characteristics of the cases and estimated the key epidemiologic time-delay distributions.\n\n In the early period of exponential growth, we estimated the epidemic doubling time and the basic reproductive number.\n\n\nResults\nAmong the first 425 patients with confirmed NCIP, the median age was 59 years and 56% were male.\n\n The majority of cases (55%) with onset before January 1, 2020, were linked to the Huanan Seafood Wholesale Market, as compared with 8.6% of the subsequent cases.\n\n The mean incubation period was 5.2 days (95% confidence interval [CI], 4.1 to 7.0), with the 95th percentile of the distribution at 12.5 days.\n\n In its early stages, the epidemic doubled in size every 7.4 days.\n\n With a mean serial interval of 7.5 days (95% CI, 5.3 to 19), the basic reproductive number was estimated to be 2.2 (95% CI, 1.4 to 3.9).\n\n\nConclusions\nOn the basis of this information, there is evidence that human-to-human transmission has occurred among close contacts since the middle of December 2019. Considerable efforts to reduce transmission will be required to control outbreaks if similar dynamics apply elsewhere.\n\n Measures to prevent or reduce transmission should be implemented in populations at risk.\n\n (Funded by the Ministry of Science and Technology of China and others.\n\n)\n","id":"PMC7121484","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Massachusetts Medical Society","authors":[{"firstname":"Qun","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xuhua","surname":"Guan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Peng","surname":"Wu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xiaoye","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Lei","surname":"Zhou","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yeqing","surname":"Tong","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ruiqi","surname":"Ren","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Kathy S.M.","surname":"Leung","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Eric H.Y.","surname":"Lau","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jessica Y.","surname":"Wong","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xuesen","surname":"Xing","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Nijuan","surname":"Xiang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yang","surname":"Wu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Chao","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Qi","surname":"Chen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Dan","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Tian","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jing","surname":"Zhao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Man","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Wenxiao","surname":"Tu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Chuding","surname":"Chen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Lianmei","surname":"Jin","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Rui","surname":"Yang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Qi","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Suhua","surname":"Zhou","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Rui","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hui","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yinbo","surname":"Luo","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yuan","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ge","surname":"Shao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Huan","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zhongfa","surname":"Tao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yang","surname":"Yang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zhiqiang","surname":"Deng","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Boxi","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zhitao","surname":"Ma","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yanping","surname":"Zhang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Guoqing","surname":"Shi","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Tommy T.Y.","surname":"Lam","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Joseph T.","surname":"Wu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"George F.","surname":"Gao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Benjamin J.","surname":"Cowling","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Bo","surname":"Yang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Bo","surname":"Yang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Gabriel M.","surname":"Leung","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zijian","surname":"Feng","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The announcement from the Hubei Provincial Novel Coronavirus Pneumonia Prevention and Control Headquarter","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Companies can flexibly arrange jobs during the novel coronavirus epidemic except for those absolutely necessary for the normal operation of cities","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The announcement on postponing the reoperation date of companies and the reopening date of schools","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The announcement on postponing the reoperation date of companies and the reopening date of schools","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.3201/eid2605.190995","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Nonpharmaceutical Measures for Pandemic Influenza in Nonhealthcare SettingsSocial Distancing Measures","abstract":"Influenza virus infections are believed to spread mostly by close contact in the community.\n Social distancing measures are essential components of the public health response to influenza pandemics.\n The objective of these mitigation measures is to reduce transmission, thereby delaying the epidemic peak, reducing the size of the epidemic peak, and spreading cases over a longer time to relieve pressure on the healthcare system.\n We conducted systematic reviews of the evidence base for effectiveness of multiple mitigation measures: isolating ill persons, contact tracing, quarantining exposed persons, school closures, workplace measures/closures, and avoiding crowding.\n Evidence supporting the effectiveness of these measures was obtained largely from observational studies and simulation studies.\n Voluntary isolation at home might be a more feasible social distancing measure, and pandemic plans should consider how to facilitate this measure.\n More drastic social distancing measures might be reserved for severe pandemics.\n","id":"PMC7181908","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Centers for Disease Control and Prevention","authors":[{"firstname":"Min W.","surname":"Fong","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Huizhi","surname":"Gao","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jessica Y.","surname":"Wong","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jingyi","surname":"Xiao","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Eunice Y.C.","surname":"Shiu","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Sukhyun","surname":"Ryu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Benjamin J.","surname":"Cowling","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Facing the COVID-19 outbreak: what should we know and what could we do?","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[{"doi":"10.1101/2020.02.06.20020974","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Clinical characteristics of 2019 novel coronavirus infection in China","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1056/NEJMoa2001316","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Early Transmission Dynamics in Wuhan, China, of Novel CoronavirusInfected Pneumonia","abstract":"Background\nThe initial cases of novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV)infected pneumonia (NCIP) occurred in Wuhan, Hubei Province, China, in December 2019 and January 2020. We analyzed data on the first 425 confirmed cases in Wuhan to determine the epidemiologic characteristics of NCIP.\n\n\nMethods\nWe collected information on demographic characteristics, exposure history, and illness timelines of laboratory-confirmed cases of NCIP that had been reported by January 22, 2020. We described characteristics of the cases and estimated the key epidemiologic time-delay distributions.\n\n In the early period of exponential growth, we estimated the epidemic doubling time and the basic reproductive number.\n\n\nResults\nAmong the first 425 patients with confirmed NCIP, the median age was 59 years and 56% were male.\n\n The majority of cases (55%) with onset before January 1, 2020, were linked to the Huanan Seafood Wholesale Market, as compared with 8.6% of the subsequent cases.\n\n The mean incubation period was 5.2 days (95% confidence interval [CI], 4.1 to 7.0), with the 95th percentile of the distribution at 12.5 days.\n\n In its early stages, the epidemic doubled in size every 7.4 days.\n\n With a mean serial interval of 7.5 days (95% CI, 5.3 to 19), the basic reproductive number was estimated to be 2.2 (95% CI, 1.4 to 3.9).\n\n\nConclusions\nOn the basis of this information, there is evidence that human-to-human transmission has occurred among close contacts since the middle of December 2019. Considerable efforts to reduce transmission will be required to control outbreaks if similar dynamics apply elsewhere.\n\n Measures to prevent or reduce transmission should be implemented in populations at risk.\n\n (Funded by the Ministry of Science and Technology of China and others.\n\n)\n","id":"PMC7121484","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Massachusetts Medical Society","authors":[{"firstname":"Qun","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xuhua","surname":"Guan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Peng","surname":"Wu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xiaoye","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Lei","surname":"Zhou","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yeqing","surname":"Tong","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ruiqi","surname":"Ren","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Kathy S.M.","surname":"Leung","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Eric H.Y.","surname":"Lau","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jessica Y.","surname":"Wong","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xuesen","surname":"Xing","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Nijuan","surname":"Xiang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yang","surname":"Wu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Chao","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Qi","surname":"Chen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Dan","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Tian","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jing","surname":"Zhao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Man","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Wenxiao","surname":"Tu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Chuding","surname":"Chen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Lianmei","surname":"Jin","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Rui","surname":"Yang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Qi","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Suhua","surname":"Zhou","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Rui","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hui","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yinbo","surname":"Luo","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yuan","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ge","surname":"Shao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Huan","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zhongfa","surname":"Tao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yang","surname":"Yang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zhiqiang","surname":"Deng","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Boxi","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zhitao","surname":"Ma","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yanping","surname":"Zhang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Guoqing","surname":"Shi","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Tommy T.Y.","surname":"Lam","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Joseph T.","surname":"Wu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"George F.","surname":"Gao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Benjamin J.","surname":"Cowling","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Bo","surname":"Yang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Bo","surname":"Yang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Gabriel M.","surname":"Leung","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zijian","surname":"Feng","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"  . Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-2019) situation report:37. https://www.who.int/docs/default-source/coronaviruse/situation-reports/20200226-sitrep-37-covid-19.pdf?sfvrsn=6126c0a4_2 ","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1101/2020.01.21.914044","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Host and infectivity prediction of Wuhan 2019 novel coronavirus using deep learning algorithm","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1128/JVI.00127-20","date":"2020-01-28","title":"Receptor Recognition by the Novel Coronavirus from Wuhan: an Analysis Based on Decade-Long Structural Studies of SARS Coronavirus","abstract":"The recent emergence of Wuhan coronavirus (2019-nCoV) puts the world on alert.\n 2019-nCoV is reminiscent of the SARS-CoV outbreak in 2002 to 2003. Our decade-long structural studies on the receptor recognition by SARS-CoV have identified key interactions between SARS-CoV spike protein and its host receptor angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2), which regulate both the cross-species and human-to-human transmissions of SARS-CoV.\n One of the goals of SARS-CoV research was to build an atomic-level iterative framework of virus-receptor interactions to facilitate epidemic surveillance, predict species-specific receptor usage, and identify potential animal hosts and animal models of viruses.\n Based on the sequence of 2019-nCoV spike protein, we apply this predictive framework to provide novel insights into the receptor usage and likely host range of 2019-nCoV.\n This study provides a robust test of this reiterative framework, providing the basic, translational, and public health research communities with predictive insights that may help study and battle this novel 2019-nCoV.\n","id":"PMC7081895","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"American Society for Microbiology","authors":[{"firstname":"Yushun","surname":"Wan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jian","surname":"Shang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Rachel","surname":"Graham","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ralph S.","surname":"Baric","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Fang","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Tom","surname":"Gallagher","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Tom","surname":"Gallagher","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1016/S0140-6736(20)30251-8","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Genomic characterisation and epidemiology of 2019 novel coronavirus: implications for virus origins and receptor binding","abstract":"Background\nIn late December, 2019, patients presenting with viral pneumonia due to an unidentified microbial agent were reported in Wuhan, China.\n\n A novel coronavirus was subsequently identified as the causative pathogen, provisionally named 2019 novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV).\n\n As of Jan 26, 2020, more than 2000 cases of 2019-nCoV infection have been confirmed, most of which involved people living in or visiting Wuhan, and human-to-human transmission has been confirmed.\n\n\nMethods\nWe did next-generation sequencing of samples from bronchoalveolar lavage fluid and cultured isolates from nine inpatients, eight of whom had visited the Huanan seafood market in Wuhan.\n\n Complete and partial 2019-nCoV genome sequences were obtained from these individuals.\n\n Viral contigs were connected using Sanger sequencing to obtain the full-length genomes, with the terminal regions determined by rapid amplification of cDNA ends.\n\n Phylogenetic analysis of these 2019-nCoV genomes and those of other coronaviruses was used to determine the evolutionary history of the virus and help infer its likely origin.\n\n Homology modelling was done to explore the likely receptor-binding properties of the virus.\n\n\nFindings\nThe ten genome sequences of 2019-nCoV obtained from the nine patients were extremely similar, exhibiting more than 9998% sequence identity.\n\n Notably, 2019-nCoV was closely related (with 88% identity) to two bat-derived severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS)-like coronaviruses, bat-SL-CoVZC45 and bat-SL-CoVZXC21, collected in 2018 in Zhoushan, eastern China, but were more distant from SARS-CoV (about 79%) and MERS-CoV (about 50%).\n\n Phylogenetic analysis revealed that 2019-nCoV fell within the subgenus Sarbecovirus of the genus Betacoronavirus, with a relatively long branch length to its closest relatives bat-SL-CoVZC45 and bat-SL-CoVZXC21, and was genetically distinct from SARS-CoV.\n\n Notably, homology modelling revealed that 2019-nCoV had a similar receptor-binding domain structure to that of SARS-CoV, despite amino acid variation at some key residues.\n\n\nInterpretation\n2019-nCoV is sufficiently divergent from SARS-CoV to be considered a new human-infecting betacoronavirus.\n\n Although our phylogenetic analysis suggests that bats might be the original host of this virus, an animal sold at the seafood market in Wuhan might represent an intermediate host facilitating the emergence of the virus in humans.\n\n Importantly, structural analysis suggests that 2019-nCoV might be able to bind to the angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 receptor in humans.\n\n The future evolution, adaptation, and spread of this virus warrant urgent investigation.\n\n\nFunding\nNational Key Research and Development Program of China, National Major Project for Control and Prevention of Infectious Disease in China, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Shandong First Medical University.\n\n\n","id":"PMC7159086","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Elsevier Ltd.","authors":[{"firstname":"Roujian","surname":"Lu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xiang","surname":"Zhao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Juan","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Peihua","surname":"Niu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Bo","surname":"Yang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Honglong","surname":"Wu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Wenling","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hao","surname":"Song","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Baoying","surname":"Huang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Na","surname":"Zhu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yuhai","surname":"Bi","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xuejun","surname":"Ma","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Faxian","surname":"Zhan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Liang","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Tao","surname":"Hu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hong","surname":"Zhou","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zhenhong","surname":"Hu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Weimin","surname":"Zhou","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Li","surname":"Zhao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jing","surname":"Chen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yao","surname":"Meng","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ji","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yang","surname":"Lin","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jianying","surname":"Yuan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zhihao","surname":"Xie","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jinmin","surname":"Ma","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"William J","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Dayan","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Wenbo","surname":"Xu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Edward C","surname":"Holmes","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"George F","surname":"Gao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Guizhen","surname":"Wu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Weijun","surname":"Chen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Weifeng","surname":"Shi","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Wenjie","surname":"Tan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1016/S0140-6736(20)30300-7","date":"1970-01-01","title":"What to do next to control the 2019-nCoV epidemic?","abstract":"","id":"PMC7138017","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Elsevier Ltd.","authors":[{"firstname":"Fu-Sheng","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Chao","surname":"Zhang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1038/s41586-020-2008-3","date":"2020-01-28","title":"A new coronavirus associated with human respiratory disease in China","abstract":"id='Par1'>Emerging infectious diseases, such as severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) and Zika virus disease, present a major threat to public health13.\n Despite intense research efforts, how, when and where new diseases appear are still a source of considerable uncertainty.\n A severe respiratory disease was recently reported in Wuhan, Hubei province, China.\n As of 25 January 2020, at least 1,975cases had been reported since the first patient was hospitalized on 12 December 2019. Epidemiological investigations have suggested that the outbreak was associated with a seafood market in Wuhan.\n Here we study a single patient who was a worker at the market and who was admitted to the Central Hospital of Wuhan on 26 December 2019 while experiencing a severe respiratory syndrome that included fever, dizziness and a cough.\n Metagenomic RNA sequencing4 of a sample of bronchoalveolar lavage fluid from the patient identified a new RNA virus strain from the family Coronaviridae, which is designated here WH-Human 1 coronavirus (and has also been referred to as 2019-nCoV).\n Phylogenetic analysis of the complete viral genome (29,903nucleotides) revealed that the virus was most closely related (89.1% nucleotide similarity) to a group of SARS-like coronaviruses (genus Betacoronavirus, subgenus Sarbecovirus) that had previously been found in bats in China5.\n This outbreak highlights the ongoing ability of viral spill-over from animals to cause severe disease in humans.\n","id":"PMC7094943","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Nature Publishing Group UK","authors":[{"firstname":"Fan","surname":"Wu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Su","surname":"Zhao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Bin","surname":"Yu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yan-Mei","surname":"Chen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Wen","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zhi-Gang","surname":"Song","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yi","surname":"Hu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zhao-Wu","surname":"Tao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zhao-Wu","surname":"Tao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jun-Hua","surname":"Tian","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yuan-Yuan","surname":"Pei","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ming-Li","surname":"Yuan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yu-Ling","surname":"Zhang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Fa-Hui","surname":"Dai","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yi","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Qi-Min","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jiao-Jiao","surname":"Zheng","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Lin","surname":"Xu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Edward C.","surname":"Holmes","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yong-Zhen","surname":"Zhang","email":"zhangyongzhen@shphc.org.cn","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yong-Zhen","surname":"Zhang","email":"zhangyongzhen@shphc.org.cn","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1101/2020.02.11.944462","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Cryo-EM Structure of the 2019-nCoV Spike in the Prefusion Conformation","abstract":"id='P2'>The outbreak of a novel betacoronavirus (2019-nCov) represents a pandemic threat that has been declared a public health emergency of international concern.\n The CoV spike (S) glycoprotein is a key target for urgently needed vaccines, therapeutic antibodies, and diagnostics.\n To facilitate medical countermeasure (MCM) development we determined a 3.5 -resolution cryo-EM structure of the 2019-nCoV S trimer in the prefusion conformation.\n The predominant state of the trimer has one of the three receptor-binding domains (RBDs) rotated up in a receptor-accessible conformation.\n We also show biophysical and structural evidence that the 2019-nCoV S binds ACE2 with higher affinity than SARS-CoV S.\n Additionally we tested several published SARS-CoV RBD-specific monoclonal antibodies and found that they do not have appreciable binding to nCoV-2019 S, suggesting antibody cross-reactivity may be limited between the two virus RBDs.\n The atomic-resolution structure of 2019-nCoV S should enable rapid development and evaluation of MCMs to address the ongoing public health crisis.\n","id":"PMC7217118","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory","authors":[{"firstname":"Daniel","surname":"Wrapp","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Nianshuang","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Kizzmekia S.","surname":"Corbett","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jory A.","surname":"Goldsmith","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ching-Lin","surname":"Hsieh","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Olubukola","surname":"Abiona","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Barney S.","surname":"Graham","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jason S.","surname":"McLellan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1056/NEJMoa2001191","date":"1970-01-01","title":"First Case of 2019 Novel Coronavirus in the United States","abstract":"An outbreak of novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV) that began in Wuhan, China, has spread rapidly, with cases now confirmed in multiple countries.\n We report the first case of 2019-nCoV infection confirmed in the United States and describe the identification, diagnosis, clinical course, and management of the case, including the patients initial mild symptoms at presentation with progression to pneumonia on day 9 of illness.\n This case highlights the importance of close coordination between clinicians and public health authorities at the local, state, and federal levels, as well as the need for rapid dissemination of clinical information related to the care of patients with this emerging infection.\n","id":"PMC7092802","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Massachusetts Medical Society","authors":[{"firstname":"Michelle L.","surname":"Holshue","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Chas","surname":"DeBolt","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Scott","surname":"Lindquist","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Kathy H.","surname":"Lofy","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"John","surname":"Wiesman","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hollianne","surname":"Bruce","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Christopher","surname":"Spitters","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Keith","surname":"Ericson","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Sara","surname":"Wilkerson","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ahmet","surname":"Tural","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"George","surname":"Diaz","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Amanda","surname":"Cohn","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"LeAnne","surname":"Fox","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Anita","surname":"Patel","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Susan I.","surname":"Gerber","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Lindsay","surname":"Kim","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Suxiang","surname":"Tong","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xiaoyan","surname":"Lu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Steve","surname":"Lindstrom","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Mark A.","surname":"Pallansch","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"William C.","surname":"Weldon","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Holly M.","surname":"Biggs","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Timothy M.","surname":"Uyeki","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Satish K.","surname":"Pillai","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The SARS, MERS and novel coronavirus (COVID-19) epidemics, the newest and biggest global health threats: what lessons have we learned?","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"A novel coronavirus from patients with pneumonia in China, 2019","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Clinical features of patients infected with 2019 novel coronavirus in Wuhan, China","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Responding to global infectious disease outbreaks: lessons from SARS on the role of risk perception, communication and management","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Epidemiology, transmission dynamics and control of SARS: the 2002-2003 epidemic","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"History of chickenpox in glioma risk: a report from the glioma international case-control study (GICC)","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"MERS coronavirus: diagnostics, epidemiology and transmission","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"MERS coronavirus outbreak: implications for emerging viral infections","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus (MERS-CoV) outbreak in South Korea, 2015: epidemiology, characteristics and public health implications","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Middle East Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus (MERS-CoV) infection: epidemiology, pathogenesis and clinical characteristics","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Epidemiological, demographic, and clinical characteristics of 47 cases of Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus disease from Saudi Arabia: a descriptive study","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Treatment of Middle East Respiratory Syndrome with a combination of lopinavir-ritonavir and interferon-beta1b (MIRACLE trial): study protocol for a randomized controlled trial","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Broad-spectrum antiviral GS-5734 inhibits both epidemic and zoonotic coronaviruses","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Comparative therapeutic efficacy of remdesivir and combination lopinavir, ritonavir, and interferon beta against MERS-CoV","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Helicobacter pylori multiplex serology","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Role of lopinavir/ritonavir in the treatment of SARS: initial virological and clinical findings","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"SARS: epidemiology","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"SARS and MERS: recent insights into emerging coronaviruses","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Risks of death and severe disease in patients with Middle East Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus, 2012-2015","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Estimating the risk of Middle East Respiratory Syndrome (MERS) death during the course of the outbreak in the Republic of Korea, 2015","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The epidemiology of severe acute respiratory syndrome in the 2003 Hong Kong epidemic: an analysis of all 1755 patients","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Transmission of 2019-nCoV Infection from an asymptomatic contact in Germany","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Coronavirus infections-more than just the common cold","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Healthcare-associated infections: the hallmark of Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus with review of the literature","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"MERS transmission and risk factors: a systematic review","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS)-lessons for future pandemics","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Public Health Network Structure and Collaboration Effectiveness during the 2015 MERS outbreak in South Korea: an institutional collective action framework","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Leung Gm Nowcasting and forecasting the potential domestic and international spread of the 2019-nCoV outbreak originating in Wuhan, China: a modelling study","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"CDC. CDC Advises Travelers to Avoid All Nonessential Travel to China. https://www.cdc.gov/media/releases/2020/s0128-travelers-avoid-china.html (2 April 2020, date last accessed).","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Passengers' destinations from China: low risk of novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV) transmission into Africa and South America","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Early transmission dynamics in Wuhan, China, of novel coronavirus-infected pneumonia","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Epidemiological and clinical characteristics of 99 cases of 2019 novel coronavirus pneumonia in Wuhan, China: a descriptive study","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/S0140-6736(20)30260-9","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Nowcasting and forecasting the potential domestic and international spread of the 2019-nCoV outbreak originating in Wuhan, China: a modelling study","abstract":"Background\nSince Dec 31, 2019, the Chinese city of Wuhan has reported an outbreak of atypical pneumonia caused by the 2019 novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV).\n\n Cases have been exported to other Chinese cities, as well as internationally, threatening to trigger a global outbreak.\n\n Here, we provide an estimate of the size of the epidemic in Wuhan on the basis of the number of cases exported from Wuhan to cities outside mainland China and forecast the extent of the domestic and global public health risks of epidemics, accounting for social and non-pharmaceutical prevention interventions.\n\n\nMethods\nWe used data from Dec 31, 2019, to Jan 28, 2020, on the number of cases exported from Wuhan internationally (known days of symptom onset from Dec 25, 2019, to Jan 19, 2020) to infer the number of infections in Wuhan from Dec 1, 2019, to Jan 25, 2020. Cases exported domestically were then estimated.\n\n We forecasted the national and global spread of 2019-nCoV, accounting for the effect of the metropolitan-wide quarantine of Wuhan and surrounding cities, which began Jan 2324, 2020. We used data on monthly flight bookings from the Official Aviation Guide and data on human mobility across more than 300 prefecture-level cities in mainland China from the Tencent database.\n\n Data on confirmed cases were obtained from the reports published by the Chinese Center for Disease Control and Prevention.\n\n Serial interval estimates were based on previous studies of severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus (SARS-CoV).\n\n A susceptible-exposed-infectious-recovered metapopulation model was used to simulate the epidemics across all major cities in China.\n\n The basic reproductive number was estimated using Markov Chain Monte Carlo methods and presented using the resulting posterior mean and 95% credibile interval (CrI).\n\n\nFindings\nIn our baseline scenario, we estimated that the basic reproductive number for 2019-nCoV was 268 (95% CrI 247286) and that 75?815 individuals (95% CrI 37?304130?330) have been infected in Wuhan as of Jan 25, 2020. The epidemic doubling time was 64 days (95% CrI 5871).\n\n We estimated that in the baseline scenario, Chongqing, Beijing, Shanghai, Guangzhou, and Shenzhen had imported 461 (95% CrI 227805), 113 (57193), 98 (49168), 111 (56191), and 80 (40139) infections from Wuhan, respectively.\n\n If the transmissibility of 2019-nCoV were similar everywhere domestically and over time, we inferred that epidemics are already growing exponentially in multiple major cities of China with a lag time behind the Wuhan outbreak of about 12 weeks.\n\n\nInterpretation\nGiven that 2019-nCoV is no longer contained within Wuhan, other major Chinese cities are probably sustaining localised outbreaks.\n\n Large cities overseas with close transport links to China could also become outbreak epicentres, unless substantial public health interventions at both the population and personal levels are implemented immediately.\n\n Independent self-sustaining outbreaks in major cities globally could become inevitable because of substantial exportation of presymptomatic cases and in the absence of large-scale public health interventions.\n\n Preparedness plans and mitigation interventions should be readied for quick deployment globally.\n\n\nFunding\nHealth and Medical Research Fund (Hong Kong, China).\n\n\n","id":"PMC7159271","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Elsevier Ltd.","authors":[{"firstname":"Joseph T","surname":"Wu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Kathy","surname":"Leung","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Gabriel M","surname":"Leung","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1093/jtm/taaa011","date":"2020-01-27","title":"Potential for global spread of a novel coronavirus from China","abstract":"An epidemic of a novel coronavirus emerged from Wuhan, China, in late December 2019 and has since spread to several large Chinese cities.\n Should a scenario arise where this coronavirus spreads more broadly across China, we evaluate how patterns of international disease transmission could change.\n","id":"PMC7074660","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Oxford University Press","authors":[{"firstname":"Isaac I","surname":"Bogoch","email":"isaac.bogoch@uhn.ca","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Alexander","surname":"Watts","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Andrea","surname":"Thomas-Bachli","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Carmen","surname":"Huber","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Moritz U G","surname":"Kraemer","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Kamran","surname":"Khan","email":"khank@smh.ca","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":". Coronavirus COVID-19 Global Cases by Johns Hopkins CSSE.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Transmission of 2019-nCoV infection from an asymptomatic contact in Germany","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Tracing the largest seasonal migration on earth","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"What kinds of Chinese 'geese' are flying to Africa? Evidence from Chinese manufacturing firms","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The evolution of China's international aviation markets from a policy perspective on air passenger flows","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1371/currents.outbreaks.711379ace737b7c04c89765342a9a8c9","date":"1970-01-01","title":"FLIRT-ing with Zika: A Web Application to Predict the Movement of Infected Travelers Validated Against the Current Zika Virus Epidemic","abstract":"Introduction:Beginning in 2015, Zika virus rapidly spread throughout the Americas and has been linked to neurological and autoimmune diseases in adults and babies.\n Developing accurate tools to anticipate Zika spread is one of the first steps to mitigate further spread of the disease.\n When combined, air traffic data and network simulations can be used to create tools to predict where infectious disease may spread to and aid in the prevention of infectious diseases.\n Specific goals were to: 1) predict where travelers infected with the Zika Virus would arrive in the U.\nS.\n; and, 2) analyze and validate the open access web applications (i.\ne.\n, FLIRT) predictions using data collected after the prediction was made.\n","id":"PMC4922883","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Public Library of Science","authors":[{"firstname":"Andrew","surname":"Huff","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Toph","surname":"Allen","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Karissa","surname":"Whiting","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Nathan","surname":"Breit","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Brock","surname":"Arnold","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The continuing 2019-nCoV epidemic threat of novel coronaviruses to global health - the latest 2019 novel coronavirus outbreak in Wuhan, China","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"SARS to novel coronavirus - old lessons and new lessons","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Early transmission dynamics in Wuhan, China, of novel coronavirus-infected pneumonia","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The 2019-nCoV Outbreak Joint Field Epidemiology Investigation Team, Li Q. Notes from the field: an outbreak of NCIP (2019-nCoV) infection in China : Wuhan, Hubei Province, 2019-2020.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"A novel coronavirus genome identified in a cluster of pneumonia cases : Wuhan, China 2019-2020.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"A novel coronavirus from patients with pneumonia in China, 2019.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Use of national pneumonia surveillance to describe influenza A(H7N9) virus epidemiology, China, 2004-2013.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"A novel coronavirus emerging in China : key questions for impact assessment.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Evidence for camel-to-human transmission of MERS coronavirus.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Transmission dynamics and control of severe acute respiratory syndrome.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Dynamically modeling SARS and other newly emerging respiratory illnesses: past, present, and future.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Coronavirus infections : more than just the common cold.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Another decade, another coronavirus.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"SARS and MERS: recent insights into emerging coronaviruses.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"MERS, SARS, and Ebola: the role of super-spreaders in infectious disease.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"A familial cluster of pneumonia associated with the 2019 novel coronavirus indicating person-to-person transmission: a study of a family cluster.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Real-time tentative assessment of the epidemiological characteristics of novel coronavirus infections in Wuhan, China, as at January 2020.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"How to maintain surveillance for novel influenza A H1N1 when there are too many cases to count.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) and corona virus disease-2019 (COVID-19): the epidemic and the challenges","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The number of confirmed COVID-19 case was reported by the national health and Health Commission","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]}]},{"doi":"10.1016/S2468-2667(20)30090-6","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Impact assessment of non-pharmaceutical interventions against coronavirus disease 2019 and influenza in Hong Kong: an observational study","abstract":"Background\nA range of public health measures have been implemented to suppress local transmission of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) in Hong Kong.\n\n We examined the effect of these interventions and behavioural changes of the public on the incidence of COVID-19, as well as on influenza virus infections, which might share some aspects of transmission dynamics with COVID-19.\nMethods\nWe analysed data on laboratory-confirmed COVID-19 cases, influenza surveillance data in outpatients of all ages, and influenza hospitalisations in children.\n\n We estimated the daily effective reproduction number (Rt) for COVID-19 and influenza A H1N1 to estimate changes in transmissibility over time.\n\n Attitudes towards COVID-19 and changes in population behaviours were reviewed through three telephone surveys done on Jan 2023, Feb 1114, and March 1013, 2020.\nFindings\nCOVID-19 transmissibility measured by Rt has remained at approximately 1 for 8 weeks in Hong Kong.\n\n Influenza transmission declined substantially after the implementation of social distancing measures and changes in population behaviours in late January, with a 44% (95% CI 3453%) reduction in transmissibility in the community, from an estimated Rt of 128 (95% CI 126130) before the start of the school closures to 072 (070074) during the closure weeks.\n\n Similarly, a 33% (2443%) reduction in transmissibility was seen based on paediatric hospitalisation rates, from an Rt of 110 (106112) before the start of the school closures to 073 (068077) after school closures.\n\n Among respondents to the surveys, 745%, 975%, and 988% reported wearing masks when going out, and 613%, 902%, and 851% reported avoiding crowded places in surveys 1 (n=1008), 2 (n=1000), and 3 (n=1005), respectively.\n\n\nInterpretation\nOur study shows that non-pharmaceutical interventions (including border restrictions, quarantine and isolation, distancing, and changes in population behaviour) were associated with reduced transmission of COVID-19 in Hong Kong, and are also likely to have substantially reduced influenza transmission in early February, 2020.\nFunding\nHealth and Medical Research Fund, Hong Kong.\n\n\n","id":"PMC7164922","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd.","authors":[{"firstname":"Benjamin J","surname":"Cowling","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":" Sheikh Taslim","surname":"Ali","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":" Tiffany W Y","surname":"Ng","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":" Tim K","surname":"Tsang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":" Julian C M","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":" Min Whui","surname":"Fong","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":" Qiuyan","surname":"Liao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":" Mike YW","surname":"Kwan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":" So Lun","surname":"Lee","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":" Susan S","surname":"Chiu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":" Joseph T","surname":"Wu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":" Peng","surname":"Wu","email":"pengwu@hku.hk","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":" Gabriel M","surname":"Leung","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}],"Full Text":"Impact assessment of non-pharmaceutical interventions against coronavirus disease 2019 and influenza in Hong Kong: an observational study\nSummary\nBackground\nA range of public health measures have been implemented to suppress local transmission of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) in Hong Kong. We examined the effect of these interventions and behavioural changes of the public on the incidence of COVID-19, as well as on influenza virus infections, which might share some aspects of transmission dynamics with COVID-19.\nMethods\nWe analysed data on laboratory-confirmed COVID-19 cases, influenza surveillance data in outpatients of all ages, and influenza hospitalisations in children. We estimated the daily effective reproduction number (Rt) for COVID-19 and influenza A H1N1 to estimate changes in transmissibility over time. Attitudes towards COVID-19 and changes in population behaviours were reviewed through three telephone surveys done on Jan 20-23, Feb 11-14, and March 10-13, 2020.\nFindings\nCOVID-19 transmissibility measured by Rt has remained at approximately 1 for 8 weeks in Hong Kong. Influenza transmission declined substantially after the implementation of social distancing measures and changes in population behaviours in late January, with a 44% (95% CI 34-53%) reduction in transmissibility in the community, from an estimated Rt of 1 28 (95% CI 1 26-1 30) before the start of the school closures to 0 72 (0 70-0 74) during the closure weeks. Similarly, a 33% (24-43%) reduction in transmissibility was seen based on paediatric hospitalisation rates, from an Rt of 1 10 (1 06-1 12) before the start of the school closures to 0 73 (0 68-0 77) after school closures. Among respondents to the surveys, 74 5%, 97 5%, and 98 8% reported wearing masks when going out, and 61 3%, 90 2%, and 85 1% reported avoiding crowded places in surveys 1 (n=1008), 2 (n=1000), and 3 (n=1005), respectively.\nInterpretation\nOur study shows that non-pharmaceutical interventions (including border restrictions, quarantine and isolation, distancing, and changes in population behaviour) were associated with reduced transmission of COVID-19 in Hong Kong, and are also likely to have substantially reduced influenza transmission in early February, 2020.\nFunding\nHealth and Medical Research Fund, Hong Kong.\nIntroduction\nThe first wave of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) in China, outside of Hubei province, was addressed with the implementation of aggressive public health measures. These measures relied heavily on massive mobility restrictions, universal fever screening in all settings, and neighbourhood-based, household-focused social distancing that was enforced by large teams of community workers, as well as pervasive deployment of artificial intelligence-based social media applications and the use of big data. Whether some or all of these measures would be acceptable and feasible in settings outside of mainland China has been questioned. \nHong Kong is a Special Administrative Region of China that operates with a large degree of autonomy. It is located outside the mainland on the southern coast of China, neighbouring Guangdong province:which has recorded the largest number of confirmed cases of COVID-19 (1490 cases as of March 31, 2020) outside of Hubei. Having been one of the most heavily affected epicentres during the severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) epidemic in 2003, the community in Hong Kong has been prepared to respond to emerging infectious diseases. A range of public health measures have been implemented to delay and reduce local transmission of COVID-19, and there have been major changes in population behaviour.\nThe initial containment or current suppression measures used to control COVID-19 in Hong Kong include intense surveillance for infections, not only in incoming travellers but also in the local community, with around 400 outpatients and 600 inpatients tested each day in early March, 2020. Once individuals are identified to be positive for COVID-19, they are isolated in hospital until they recover and cease virus shedding. Their close contacts are traced (from 2 days before illness onset) and quarantined in special facilities, including holiday camps and newly constructed housing estates. Because not every infected person will be identified, containment measures only work if social distancing measures or behavioural changes also reduce so-called silent transmission in the community as a whole.\nResearch in context\n Evidence before this study \nCoronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) was first identified in late December 2019, in a cluster of cases of atypical pneumonia in Wuhan. Infections increased through January until the implementation of a lockdown of Wuhan and other affected cities. Since January, 2020, COVID-19 cases have been reported outside China in increasing numbers, with many countries not taking strong control measures, such as lockdowns, until relatively larger numbers of cases had been reported. In Hong Kong, Singapore, and Taiwan public health measures to prevent community epidemics were quickly implemented and were able to avoid the need for complete lockdowns. We searched PubMed on March 31, 2020, for studies reporting the impact of alternative public health measures against COVID-19 using keywords including &quot;COVID-19&quot;, &quot;2019-nCoV&quot;, &quot;novel coronavirus-infected pneumonia&quot;, &quot;SARS-CoV-2&quot;, &quot;lockdown&quot;, &quot;social distancing&quot;, &quot;isolation&quot;, &quot;contact tracing&quot;, and &quot;quarantine&quot;. We scanned 227 published studies and found six that estimated the impact of public health measures in Wuhan or elsewhere in mainland China, one study that described the early application of testing and contact tracing in Singapore, and one study reporting the impact of quarantine on transmission on the Diamond Princess cruise ship.\n Added value of this study \nWe estimated the effective reproduction number of COVID-19 in Hong Kong as a measure of transmissibility over time and found that it has remained at approximately 1 for the past 8 weeks. We described the public health measures that have been introduced to contain COVID-19 transmission and the behavioural changes reported by the population, and found that distancing measures and changes in behaviour were associated with rapid declines in influenza activity. The speed of decline in influenza activity in 2020 was quicker than in previous years in which school closures were implemented but there were no other social distancing measures or voluntary changes in behaviour.\n Implications of all the available evidence \nThe experience in Hong Kong indicates that COVID-19 transmission can be contained with a combination of testing and isolating cases, plus tracing and quarantining their close contacts, along with some degree of social distancing to reduce community transmission from unidentified cases.\nHong Kong offers an opportunity to study the impact of public health interventions and population behavioural changes that could be rolled out in resource-sufficient settings in other countries. We aimed to quantify the effect of containment measures on COVID-19. In addition, to identify whether social distancing and behavioural changes have been associated with reducing silent transmission of COVID-19, we analysed data on influenza activity as a proxy for potential changes in transmission of infection in line with the interventions implemented, assuming a similar mode and efficiency of spread of influenza and COVID-19. The specific objective of this study was to quantify population behavioural changes in Hong Kong during the COVID-19 outbreak, and to describe the likely impact of the behavioural changes and public health measures on COVID-19 transmission and influenza transmission in the community.\nMethods\nData collection\nData on laboratory-confirmed COVID-19 cases were obtained from the Hong Kong Centre for Health Protection, which provides daily updates with individual case data on a dedicated webpage.\nWe obtained sentinel surveillance data on influenza-like illnesses in a network of around 60 general outpatient clinics from the Centre for Health Protection. These include weekly reports on the proportion of outpatient consultations that were in patients with influenza-like illness, defined as fever plus cough or sore throat. We obtained laboratory surveillance data from the Public Health Laboratory Services on influenza testing results on specimens from public hospitals and sentinel surveillance sites, including the weekly number of specimens tested and the number testing positive for influenza by type and subtype. Data on the current population of Hong Kong by age and sex were obtained from the Census and Statistics Department of the Hong Kong Government. We obtained the daily hospitalisation rates for influenza-positive cases among children in Hong Kong using the daily hospital admissions for influenza to the paediatric departments of two large hospitals in Hong Kong and the relevant catchment populations. \nWe did three cross-sectional telephone surveys among the general adult population in Hong Kong, on Jan 20-23, Feb 11-14, and March 10-13, 2020. The methods and survey instruments used were similar to those used for surveys during the SARS epidemic in 2003, the influenza A H1N1 pandemic in 2009, and the influenza A H7N9 outbreak in China in 2013. Participants were recruited using random-digit dialling of both landline and mobile telephone numbers. Telephone numbers were randomly generated by a computer system. Calls were made during both working and non-working hours by trained interviewers to avoid over-representation of non-working groups. Respondents were required to be at least 18 years old and able to speak Cantonese Chinese or English. New respondents were recruited for each survey round. Within each household, an eligible household member with the nearest birthday was invited to participate in the survey, which was not necessarily the person that initially answered the telephone. Survey items included measures of risk perception, attitudes towards COVID-19, and behaviours taken against contracting COVID-19, including hygiene, face masks, and reduction of social contact. In the second and third surveys, respondents who were parents of school-age children were asked to answer additional questions about social contact patterns of their children because schools were closed at the time of the interviews. Ethical approval for this study was obtained from the Institutional Review Board of the University of Hong Kong. All participants gave verbal informed consent.\nStatistical analysis\nMeans and proportions of survey responses were directly weighted by sex and age to the general population. Categorical variables with ordinal Likert-type response scales, including risk perception and attitudes towards COVID-19, were first dichotomised as either above or below a threshold. Responses to perceived susceptibility were dichotomised as 1 (likely, very likely, or certain) versus 0 (never, very unlikely, unlikely, or even chance); responses to perceived severity were dichotomised as 1 (serious or very serious) versus 0 (very mild, mild, or moderate); responses about worry were dichotomised as 1 (moderately worried or very worried) versus 0 (not at all worried or slightly worried); responses about attitudes towards COVID-19 were dichotomised as 1 (agree or strongly agree) versus 0 (strongly disagree, disagree, or neutral).\nWe estimated changes in COVID-19 transmissibility over time via the effective reproduction number (R t), which represents the mean number of secondary infections that result from a primary case of infection at time t. Values of R t exceeding 1 indicate that the epidemic will tend to grow, whereas values below 1 indicate that the epidemic will tend to decline. We estimated the time-varying reproduction numbers from serial intervals and incidence of COVID-19 cases over time, assuming a serial interval of 7 5 days. We extended the approach used by Thompson and colleagues to allow for undetected cases due to censoring and imperfect detection of local cases. We assumed that 99% of imported cases and 80% of local cases would be detected. We developed a data-augmented Markov chain Monte Carlo algorithm to jointly estimate the time-varying reproduction number, the delay distribution from onset to reporting which can be used to inform censoring and undetected cases. Time-varying estimates of reproduction numbers were made with a 7-day sliding window.\nTo measure changes in influenza transmissibility over time, we first calculated the influenza proxy for influenza A H1N1 during the 2019-20 winter by multiplying the weekly influenza-like illness consultation rates by the weekly proportions of specimens positive for influenza A H1N1, which was the predominant strain. This influenza proxy is a better correlate of the incidence of influenza virus infections in the community than either influenza-like illness rates or laboratory detection rates alone. We interpolated daily influenza proxy values from the weekly influenza proxy values with use of flexible cubic splines. \nUsing the daily influenza proxy, we estimated daily transmissibility via the daily effective reproduction number, R t. We used a simple branching process model for epidemic spread to estimate the time-varying intensity of transmission. We assumed the serial interval distribution for influenza followed a gamma distribution with a mean of 2 85 days and SD of 0 93 days. We repeated these analyses for the daily influenza A H1N1 hospitalisation rates among children in two large local hospitals (Queen Mary Hospital and Princess Margaret Hospital). We evaluated the changes in transmissibility by comparing the R t values during the 2 weeks before and after the start of the school closures (including the Chinese New Year holidays) for the 2019-20 winter influenza season. The 95% CIs for the change in R t were calculated using Fieller's theorem. We compared the reductions in 2019-20 with reductions in previous years when the Chinese New Year holidays occurred during influenza epidemics. All analyses were done with R version 3.6.2.\nRole of the funding source\nThe funder of the study had no role in study design, data collection, data analysis, data interpretation, or writing of the report. The corresponding author had full access to all the data in the study and had final responsibility for the decision to submit for publication.\nResults\nCOVID-19 cases in Hong Kong by date of reporting (A) and date of symptom onset (B)\nThe Chinese New Year, a major winter festival in Hong Kong, was on Jan 25, and there were public holidays on Jan 25-28. Most schools started holidays on Jan 22 and were scheduled to resume on Feb 3. The Hong Kong Government has deferred class resumption several times and closures are now until further notice without an expected resumption date. 94 asymptomatic cases are not shown in panel B. All dates are in 2020. COVID-19=coronavirus disease 2019.\nAs of March 31, 2020, Hong Kong had confirmed 715 cases of SARS coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) infection, including 386 individuals that were presumed to have acquired infection outside of Hong Kong (imported cases), 142 cases that could not be linked to any other case (unlinked local cases), and 187 cases that were linked to the other known cases (secondary cases; appendix p 1). Among these 715 cases of SARS-CoV-2 infection, 94 were asymptomatic infections and 621 were symptomatic infections. Figure 1 shows the timeline of interventions that were implemented by the government in Hong Kong, including travel restrictions and bans, flexible working arrangements, and school closures from kindergartens up to tertiary and post-tertiary institutions, including tutorial centres. Some religious organisations cancelled services from Feb 13 onwards, and many conferences and other local mass gatherings have been cancelled. Quarantine orders have been issued to the close contacts of individuals with confirmed infection, as well as travellers arriving from affected countries (figure 1).\nIncidence and transmissibility of COVID-19 in Hong Kong\n(A) Incidence of local COVID-19 cases in Hong Kong (dark blue bars) and cases infected overseas but detected locally (light blue bars). Augmented incidence includes estimated additional cases that have occurred but have not yet been identified due to reporting delays. (B) Estimates of the daily Rt of COVID-19 over time. The pink shaded area indicates 95% CIs. The dashed line indicates the critical threshold of Rt=1. All dates are in 2020. COVID-19=coronavirus disease 2019. Rt=effective reproduction number.\nAlthough unlinked COVID-19 cases have been detected in increasing numbers since early March, transmissibility (R t) remains around the critical threshold of 1 (figure 2 ). Increases in local cases could be attributed to the transmission of infections into the community, resulting from an increasing number of imported infections since early March. With a local effective reproduction number of 1, a gradual increase in the incidence of local infections would be expected.\nIncidence, hospitalisation rate, and Rt of influenza A (H1N1) in 2019-20\n(A) Weekly incidence, calculated as the weekly consultation rate multiplied by the proportion of laboratory specimens testing positive for influenza A (H1N1). (B) Daily hospitalisation rate with influenza A (H1N1) in children in two large hospitals in Hong Kong. (C) Estimated Rt in Hong Kong based on the influenza proxy data, with 95% CIs indicated by the pink shaded region. (D) Estimated Rt in Hong Kong based on the hospitalisation data, with 95% CIs indicated by the pink shaded region. We stopped estimating Rt when the local epidemic ended, indicated by a reduction in influenza proxy to very low levels and no further influenza hospitalisations in children. Dashed lines indicate the critical threshold of Rt=1. Shaded bars show the dates of Chinese New Year (light blue) and school closures (grey). Rt=effective reproduction number.\nData on influenza activity based on the community influenza proxy were consistent with the rate of hospitalisation of children with influenza A H1N1 in Hong Kong (figure 3A, B ). Influenza incidence peaked in the third week of January, with influenza A H1N1 predominating, and declined to low levels by the second week of February. The R t for influenza A H1N1 gradually declined from the second week of January but was greater than 1 before the start of the school closures and Chinese New Year. The R t then declined to less than 1 shortly after the school closures and continued to decrease until early February (figure 3C, D). The estimated R t was 1 28 (95% CI 1 26-1 30) during the 2-week period before the start of the school closures and 0 72 (0 70-0 74) during the first 2 weeks of school closures, corresponding to a 44% (34-53%) reduction in transmissibility (figure 3C). Similarly, the R t calculated from hospitalisation data was 1 10 (1 06-1 12) before the start of the school closures and reduced to 0 73 (0 68-0 77) after school closures, corresponding to a 33% (24-43%) reduction in transmissibility (figure 3D).\nIncidence and Rt of influenza in 2010-11 and 2014-15\nWeekly incidence of influenza (all type and subtypes) was calculated as the weekly consultation rate multiplied by the proportion of laboratory specimens testing positive for influenza in the winter influenza season of 2010-11 (A) and 2014-15 (B). Rt in Hong Kong was estimated based on the influenza proxy data, with 95% CIs indicated by the pink shaded region, for the winter influenza season of 2010-11 (C) and 2014-15 (D). Dashed lines indicate the critical threshold of Rt=1. Shaded bars show the dates of Chinese New Year (light blue) and school holidays (grey). Rt=effective reproduction number.\nIn comparison, during the 2010-11 winter, we estimated the reduction in transmissibility of influenza associated with the Chinese New Year holidays to be 15% (95% CI 11-19%), declining from an R t of 1 10 (1 08-1 13) in the 11-day period before the start of the school holidays to 0 95 (0 92-0 96) during the 11-day school holiday (figure 4 ). In the 2014-15 winter, the reduction in transmissibility associated with the Chinese New Year holidays was 14% (7-22%), declining from an R t of 0 94 (0 93-0 96) in the 11-day period before the start of the school holidays to 0 81 (0 75-0 86) during the 11-day school holiday.\nPublic attitudes, risk perceptions, and behavioural responses towards COVID-19 and seasonal influenza in three telephone surveys in Hong Kong\n	Survey 1, Jan 20-23 (n=1008)	Survey 2, Feb 11-14 (n=1000)	Survey 3, March 10-13 (n=1005)	 	Risk perception of COVID-19	 	Perceived susceptibility to COVID-19*	186 (18 9%; 16 0-21 9)	185 (17 4%; 14 8-20 1)	140 (15 2%; 12 6-17 8)	 	Perceived severity of COVID-19 	916 (89 6%; 85 8-93 3)	902 (90 5%; 86 4-94 7)	829 (82 0%; 78 6-85 4)	 	Worried about being infected with COVID-19 	551 (52 5%; 48 7-56 3)	558 (53 9%; 49 9-57 9)	471 (46 5%; 42 9-50 0)	 	Risk perception of seasonal influenza	 	Perceived susceptibility to seasonal influenza*	260 (25 1%; 22 0-28 3)	231 (22 5%; 19 4-25 6)	NA	 	Perceived severity of seasonal influenza 	406 (42 3%; 38 4-46 3)	311 (32 7%; 28 9-36 6)	NA	 	Worried about being infected with seasonal influenza 	370 (36 5%; 32 9-40 0)	283 (30 3%; 26 6-33 9)	NA	 	Attitudes towards COVID-19 	 	I'm confident that I can take measures to protect myself against COVID-19	518 (50 5%; 46 6-54 4)	594 (59 2%; 54 9-63 5)	679 (68 0%; 64 3-71 7)	 	I believe that the Hong Kong Government can take effective measures to control the spread of COVID-19 in Hong Kong	338 (33 5%; 29 9-37 1)	271 (31 8%; 27 8-35 8)	336 (35 8%; 32 2-39 3)	 	I believe that the Central Chinese Government can take effective measures to control COVID-19	308 (31 7%; 28 1-35 3)	352 (39 0%; 34 8-43 2)	NA	 	I believe that complete border closure is an effective measure to prevent COVID-19 spreading from mainland China to Hong Kong	NA	784 (76 4%; 72 3-80 5)	NA	 	Complete border closure will seriously affect the life of citizens	NA	298 (33 2%; 29 2-37 1)	NA	 	I worry about medical supplies, such as face masks, in Hong Kong	NA	860 (84 1%; 80 0-88 2)	NA	 	I worry about the living supplies in Hong Kong due to border closure	NA	244 (27 7%; 24 0-31 4)	NA	 	Preventive measures taken against COVID-19 	 	Avoided going to crowded places	627 (61 3%; 57 2-65 4)	920 (90 2%; 86 2-94 2)	860 (85 1%; 81 7-88 4)	 	Avoided visiting mainland China	800 (78 1%; 73 9-82 2)	NA	NA	 	Avoided contact with people with respiratory symptoms	687 (66 8%; 62 7-70 9)	834 (80 0%; 76 0-84 0)	806 (78 7%; 75 3-82 1)	 	Used face masks	778 (74 5%; 70 4-78 6)	976 (97 5%; 93 5-100 0)	992 (98 8%; 96 0-100 0)	 	Washed hands more often (including using hand sanitiser)	726 (71 1%; 67 0-75 2)	938 (92 5%; 88 6-96 5)	941 (93 0%; 90 0-96 0)	 	Avoided touching public objects or used protective measures when touching public objects (eg, use tissue)	387 (36 4%; 32 3-40 5)	767 (73 8%; 69 8-77 9)	746 (73 1%; 69 6-76 7)	 	House disinfection	NA	897 (89 3%; 85 2-93 4)	899 (89 6%; 86 4-92 8)	 	Used serving utensils when eating	NA	686 (66 0%; 61 9-70 1)	692 (67 7%; 64 1-71 3)	 	Stayed at home as much as possible	NA	894 (88 0%; 83 9-92 1)	868 (83 8%; 80 5-87 1)	 	Avoided going to health-care facilities	NA	832 (81 0%; 77 0-85 1)	759 (74 7%; 71 1-78 3)	 	\nData are n (%; 95% CI). Proportions were weighted by age and sex to the adult population in Hong Kong. All dates are in 2020. NA=not applicable (question was not asked in the survey). COVID-19=coronavirus disease 2019.\nNumbers and proportions represent respondents that answered likely, very likely, or certain, rather than never, very unlikely, unlikely, or even chance.\nNumbers and proportions represent respondents that answered serious or very serious, rather than very mild, mild, or moderate.\nNumbers and proportions represent respondents that answered moderately worried or very worried, rather than not at all worried or slightly worried.\nNumbers and proportions represent respondents that answered agree or strongly agree to these statements, rather than strongly disagree, disagree, or neutral.\nNumbers and proportions represent respondents who had taken the measure in the previous 7 days to prevent contracting COVID-19.\nWe interviewed 1008 participants on Jan 20-23 (22% response rate), 1000 participants on Feb 11-14 (23% response rate), and 1005 participants on March 10-13 (response rate 15%; appendix p 3). Respondents included a broad cross-section of the adult population of Hong Kong (appendix p 2). Respondents perceived that they had similar susceptibility to COVID-19 as they did to seasonal influenza, but that COVID-19 was a much more serious infection, and around half of the respondents reported worrying about being infected with COVID-19 compared with around a third of respondents for seasonal influenza (table ). In survey 2, 76 4% of respondents agreed with the statement that complete border closure would be effective in preventing the spread of COVID-19 to Hong Kong, 84 1% were worried about the availability of medical supplies, including face masks, but only 27 7% were worried about the availability of living supplies, including food and household goods, in Hong Kong (table).\nWe identified considerable increases in the use of preventive measures in response to the threat of COVID-19. In recent years, face masks have mainly been used by individuals in the general community who are ill and by those who feel particularly susceptible to infection and want to protect themselves. We found that 74 5%, 97 5%, and 98 8% of respondents wore masks when going out; 61 3%, 90 2%, and 85 1% avoided going to crowded places; and 71 1%, 92 5%, and 93 0% reported washing or sanitising their hands more often, in surveys 1, 2, and 3, respectively (table). In surveys 2 and 3, 88 0% and 83 8% reported staying at home as much as possible.\nIn surveys 2 and 3, we asked the subset of respondents who were parents of school-age children about their support for school closures and the activities of their children during the school closures. Among respondents who were parents, 249 (95 4%) of 261 and 192 (93 7%) of 205 agreed or strongly agreed that school closure was needed as a control measure for COVID-19 in Hong Kong, and 209 (80 1%) of 261 and 141 (68 8%) of 205 responded that their children had no contact with people other than their household members on the preceding day.\nDiscussion\nOur findings suggest that the package of public health interventions (including border entry restrictions, quarantine and isolation of cases and contacts, and population behaviour changes, such as social distancing and personal protective measures) that Hong Kong has implemented since late January, 2020, is associated with reduced spread of COVID-19. In the 10 weeks (corresponding to about ten generation times) since the first known individual with COVID-19 in Hong Kong began to show symptoms, there has been little sustained, local transmission of the disease. Our findings strongly suggest that social distancing and population behavioural changes:that have a social and economic impact that is less disruptive than total lockdown:can meaningfully control COVID-19.\nThe increasing number of imported infections in March poses a challenge to suppression efforts. This increase has occurred at the same time as relaxation of some voluntary avoidance behaviours in the general community. Without a strengthening of social distancing measures, local infections are likely to continue to occur, given that the effective reproduction number is approximately 1 or slightly higher than 1. Travel measures and testing, tracing, and treating efforts are particularly important in maintaining suppression, although these measures will be increasingly difficult to implement as case numbers increase.\nIn addition to the identification of cases with isolation, contact tracing, and quarantine, social distancing has also likely played an important role in suppressing transmission. We found that control measures and changes in population behaviour coincided with a substantial reduction in influenza transmission in early February, 2020. This observation suggests that the same measures would also have affected COVID-19 transmission in the community, because there will be some similarities:as well as some differences:in the modes of transmission of influenza and COVID-19. The potentially higher basic reproduction number for COVID-19 indicates that it might be more difficult to control than influenza. Because a variety of measures were used simultaneously, we were not able to disentangle the specific effects of each one, although this may become possible in the future if some measures are strengthened or relaxed locally, or with use of cross-national or subnational comparisons of the differential application of these measures.\nThe estimated 44% reduction in influenza transmission in the general community in February, 2020, was much greater than the estimated 10-15% reduction in transmission associated with school closures alone during the 2009 pandemic, and the 16% reduction in transmission of influenza B associated with school closures during the 2017-18 winter in Hong Kong. We therefore estimate that the other social distancing measures and avoidance behaviours have had a substantial effect on influenza transmission in addition to the effect of school closures. However, if the basic reproduction number of COVID-19 in Hong Kong exceeds 2, (it was 2 2 in Wuhan), we would need more than a 44% reduction in COVID-19 transmission to completely avert a local epidemic. A reduction of this magnitude could, however, substantially flatten the peak of and area under the epidemic curve, thus reducing the risk of exceeding the capacity of the health-care system, and potentially saving many lives, especially among older adults.\nThe postponement of class resumption in local schools in Hong Kong after the Chinese New Year holiday is technically a class dismissal or suspension rather than a school closure, because most teachers are still required to go to school premises to plan e-learning activities and set homework. Full school closures have been implemented locally in previous years, including during the SARS epidemic in 2003, during the influenza pandemic in 2009, and to control seasonal influenza epidemics in 2008 and 2018. Although school closures can have considerable effects on influenza transmission, their role in reducing COVID-19 transmission would depend on the susceptibility of children to infection and their infectiousness if infected. Both of these factors are major unanswered questions at present. Despite this acknowledged uncertainty, our surveys revealed considerable local support for school closures.\nIndividual behaviours in the Hong Kong population have changed in response to the threat of COVID-19. People have been choosing to stay at home, and in our most recent survey, 85% of respondents reported avoiding crowded places and 99% reported wearing face masks when leaving home. Using similar surveys, face mask use during the SARS outbreak in 2003 was 79%, and it reached a maximum of 10% during the influenza A (H1N1) pandemic in 2009. These changes in behaviour indicate the level of concern among the population about this particular infection, and the extent of voluntary social distancing in addition to the distancing created by school closures. However, we did identify evidence of reductions in voluntary social distancing behaviours in our third survey in March, perhaps indicating some fatigue with these measures.\nOur study has some limitations. First, we could not identify which measure was potentially the most effective and whether border restrictions, quarantine and isolation, social distancing, or behavioural changes are most important in suppressing COVID-19 transmission. It is likely that each plays a part. Unlinked cases have been identified in the community and will continue to be identified, indicating that not every chain of transmission has been identified by contact tracing from known cases. Although we have noted major effects of control measures and behavioural changes on influenza transmission, the effects could be of a different magnitude for COVID-19 because of differences in transmission dynamics. Second, our surveys of population behaviours could have been affected by response bias, because we relied on self-reported data. They also could have been affected by selection bias away from working adults, although this should have been reduced by conducting surveys in non-working as well as working hours:we were unable to assess potential selection bias. Without a baseline survey before Jan 23, 2020, we could not compare changes in behaviours, although the results of similar surveys from previous epidemics can be used for comparison. Finally, although we identified reductions in the incidence of influenza virus infections in outpatients and paediatric inpatients, it is possible that these time series were affected by reduced health-care-seeking behaviours and limited health-care access that probably resulted from private clinic closure, which occurred around the period of the Chinese New Year holiday.\nIn conclusion, our study suggests that measures taken to control the spread of COVID-19 have been effective and have also had a substantial impact on influenza transmission in Hong Kong. Although the transmission dynamics and modes of transmission of COVID-19 have not been precisely elucidated, they are likely to share at least some characteristics with influenza virus transmission, because both viruses are directly transmissible respiratory pathogens with similar viral shedding dynamics. The measures implemented in Hong Kong are less drastic than those used to contain transmission in mainland China, and are probably more feasible in many other locations worldwide. If these measures and population responses can be sustained, avoiding fatigue among the general population, they could meaningfully mitigate the impact of a local epidemic of COVID-19.\nData sharing\nData on the incidence of coronavirus disease 2019 and influenza activity are freely available from the Centre for Health Protection website (https://www.chp.gov.hk/en/index.html). Survey data are available from the corresponding author on request.\nReferences\nFirst-wave COVID-19 transmissibility and severity in China outside Hubei after control measures and second-wave scenario planning: a modelling impact assessment\nTo tame coronavirus, Mao-style social control blankets China\nAuthoritarianism, outbreaks, and information politics\nEarly season estimate of influenza vaccination effectiveness against influenza hospitalisation in children, Hong Kong, winter influenza season 2018/19\nA tale of two cities: community psychobehavioral surveillance and related impact on outbreak control in Hong Kong and Singapore during the severe acute respiratory syndrome epidemic\nLongitudinal assessment of community psychobehavioral responses during and after the 2003 outbreak of severe acute respiratory syndrome in Hong Kong\nCommunity psychological and behavioral responses through the first wave of the 2009 influenza A(H1N1) pandemic in Hong Kong\nResponses to threat of influenza A(H7N9) and support for live poultry markets, Hong Kong, 2013\nEpiEstim: estimate time varying reproduction numbers from epidemic curves\nImproved inference of time-varying reproduction numbers during infectious disease outbreaks\nEarly transmission dynamics in Wuhan, China, of novel coronavirus-infected pneumonia\nImproving the estimation of influenza-related mortality over a seasonal baseline\nInfection fatality risk of the pandemic A(H1N1)2009 virus in Hong Kong\nAmbient ozone and influenza transmissibility in Hong Kong\nA new framework and software to estimate time-varying reproduction numbers during epidemics\nHow generation intervals shape the relationship between growth rates and reproductive numbers\nSome problems in interval estimation\nInferring influenza infection attack rate from seroprevalence data\nMitigation of influenza B epidemic with school closures, Hong Kong, 2018\nEffectiveness of control measures during the SARS epidemic in Beijing: a comparison of the Rt curve and the epidemic curve\nEpidemiological research priorities for public health control of the ongoing global novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV) outbreak\nDefining the epidemiology of COVID-19:studies needed\nSARS-CoV-2 viral load in upper respiratory specimens of infected patients\nSupplementary Material\n","References depth 1":[{"doi":"10.1016/S0140-6736(20)30746-7","date":"1970-01-01","title":"First-wave COVID-19 transmissibility and severity in China outside Hubei after control measures, and second-wave scenario planning: a modelling impact assessment","abstract":"Background\nAs of March 18, 2020, 13?415 confirmed cases and 120 deaths related to coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) in mainland China, outside Hubei provincethe epicentre of the outbreakhad been reported.\n\n Since late January, massive public health interventions have been implemented nationwide to contain the outbreak.\n\n We provide an impact assessment of the transmissibility and severity of COVID-19 during the first wave in mainland Chinese locations outside Hubei.\n\n\nMethods\nWe estimated the instantaneous reproduction number (Rt) of COVID-19 in Beijing, Shanghai, Shenzhen, Wenzhou, and the ten Chinese provinces that had the highest number of confirmed COVID-19 cases; and the confirmed case-fatality risk (cCFR) in Beijing, Shanghai, Shenzhen, and Wenzhou, and all 31 Chinese provinces.\n\n We used a susceptibleinfectiousrecovered model to show the potential effects of relaxing containment measures after the first wave of infection, in anticipation of a possible second wave.\n\n\nFindings\nIn all selected cities and provinces, the Rt decreased substantially since Jan 23, when control measures were implemented, and have since remained below 1. The cCFR outside Hubei was 098% (95% CI 082116), which was almost five times lower than that in Hubei (591%, 573609).\n\n Relaxing the interventions (resulting in Rt &gt;1) when the epidemic size was still small would increase the cumulative case count exponentially as a function of relaxation duration, even if aggressive interventions could subsequently push disease prevalence back to the baseline level.\n\n\nInterpretation\nThe first wave of COVID-19 outside of Hubei has abated because of aggressive non-pharmaceutical interventions.\n\n However, given the substantial risk of viral reintroduction, particularly from overseas importation, close monitoring of Rt and cCFR is needed to inform strategies against a potential second wave to achieve an optimal balance between health and economic protection.\n\n\nFunding\nHealth and Medical Research Fund, Hong Kong, China.\n\n\n","id":"PMC7195331","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Elsevier Ltd.","authors":[{"firstname":"Kathy","surname":"Leung","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Joseph T","surname":"Wu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Di","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Gabriel M","surname":"Leung","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}],"References depth 2":[{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Hubei district launches wartime control order to better fight virus","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Daily briefing on the prevention and control of the transmission of the novel coronavirus in Beijing","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Press release on the prevention and control of the novel coronavirus in Shanghai","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Confirmed cases of the novel coronavirus pneumonia in Shenzhen","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Outbreak of novel coronavirus pneumonia in Wenzhou (daily updates)","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Early transmission dynamics in Wuhan, China, of novel coronavirus-infected pneumonia","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/S1473-3099(20)30147-X","date":"1970-01-01","title":"A family cluster of SARS-CoV-2 infection involving 11 patients in Nanjing, China","abstract":"","id":"PMC7159019","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Elsevier Ltd.","authors":[{"firstname":"Rui","surname":"Huang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Juan","surname":"Xia","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Yuxin","surname":"Chen","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Chun","surname":"Shan","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Chao","surname":"Wu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Line list of 2019-nCoV confirmed fatal cases (from publicly available information)","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Different epidemic curves for severe acute respiratory syndrome reveal similar impacts of control measures","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"A new framework and software to estimate time-varying reproduction numbers during epidemics","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Improved inference of time-varying reproduction numbers during infectious disease outbreaks","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Under-reporting and estimates for emerging epidemics","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Nowcasting and forecasting the potential domestic and international spread of the 2019-nCoV outbreak originating in Wuhan, China: a modelling study","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/S1473-3099(20)30144-4","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Early dynamics of transmission and control of COVID-19: a mathematical modelling study","abstract":"Background\nAn outbreak of severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) has led to 95?333 confirmed cases as of March 5, 2020. Understanding the early transmission dynamics of the infection and evaluating the effectiveness of control measures is crucial for assessing the potential for sustained transmission to occur in new areas.\n\n Combining a mathematical model of severe SARS-CoV-2 transmission with four datasets from within and outside Wuhan, we estimated how transmission in Wuhan varied between December, 2019, and February, 2020. We used these estimates to assess the potential for sustained human-to-human transmission to occur in locations outside Wuhan if cases were introduced.\n\n\nMethods\nWe combined a stochastic transmission model with data on cases of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) in Wuhan and international cases that originated in Wuhan to estimate how transmission had varied over time during January, 2020, and February, 2020. Based on these estimates, we then calculated the probability that newly introduced cases might generate outbreaks in other areas.\n\n To estimate the early dynamics of transmission in Wuhan, we fitted a stochastic transmission dynamic model to multiple publicly available datasets on cases in Wuhan and internationally exported cases from Wuhan.\n\n The four datasets we fitted to were: daily number of new internationally exported cases (or lack thereof), by date of onset, as of Jan 26, 2020; daily number of new cases in Wuhan with no market exposure, by date of onset, between Dec 1, 2019, and Jan 1, 2020; daily number of new cases in China, by date of onset, between Dec 29, 2019, and Jan 23, 2020; and proportion of infected passengers on evacuation flights between Jan 29, 2020, and Feb 4, 2020. We used an additional two datasets for comparison with model outputs: daily number of new exported cases from Wuhan (or lack thereof) in countries with high connectivity to Wuhan (ie, top 20 most at-risk countries), by date of confirmation, as of Feb 10, 2020; and data on new confirmed cases reported in Wuhan between Jan 16, 2020, and Feb 11, 2020.\nFindings\nWe estimated that the median daily reproduction number (Rt) in Wuhan declined from 235 (95% CI 115477) 1 week before travel restrictions were introduced on Jan 23, 2020, to 105 (041239) 1 week after.\n\n Based on our estimates of Rt, assuming SARS-like variation, we calculated that in locations with similar transmission potential to Wuhan in early January, once there are at least four independently introduced cases, there is a more than 50% chance the infection will establish within that population.\n\n\nInterpretation\nOur results show that COVID-19 transmission probably declined in Wuhan during late January, 2020, coinciding with the introduction of travel control measures.\n\n As more cases arrive in international locations with similar transmission potential to Wuhan before these control measures, it is likely many chains of transmission will fail to establish initially, but might lead to new outbreaks eventually.\n\n\nFunding\nWellcome Trust, Health Data Research UK, Bill &amp; Melinda Gates Foundation, and National Institute for Health Research.\n\n\n","id":"PMC7158569","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Elsevier Science ;, The Lancet Pub. Group","authors":[{"firstname":"Adam J","surname":"Kucharski","email":"adam.kucharski@lshtm.ac.uk","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Timothy W","surname":"Russell","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Charlie","surname":"Diamond","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yang","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"John","surname":"Edmunds","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Sebastian","surname":"Funk","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Rosalind M","surname":"Eggo","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Fiona","surname":"Sun","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Mark","surname":"Jit","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"James D","surname":"Munday","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Nicholas","surname":"Davies","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Amy","surname":"Gimma","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Kevin","surname":"van Zandvoort","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hamish","surname":"Gibbs","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Joel","surname":"Hellewell","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Christopher I","surname":"Jarvis","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Sam","surname":"Clifford","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Billy J","surname":"Quilty","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Nikos I","surname":"Bosse","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Sam","surname":"Abbott","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Petra","surname":"Klepac","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Stefan","surname":"Flasche","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1038/s41591-020-0822-7","date":"2020-03-09","title":"Estimating clinical severity of COVID-19 from the transmission dynamics in Wuhan, China","abstract":"id='Par2'>As of 29 February 2020 there were 79,394 confirmed cases and 2,838 deaths from COVID-19 in mainland China.\n Of these, 48,557 cases and 2,169 deaths occurred in the epicenter, Wuhan.\n A key public health priority during the emergence of a novel pathogen is estimating clinical severity, which requires properly adjusting for the case ascertainment rate and the delay between symptoms onset and death.\n Using public and published information, we estimate that the overall symptomatic case fatality risk (the probability of dying after developing symptoms) of COVID-19 in Wuhan was 1.4% (0.92.1%), which is substantially lower than both the corresponding crude or nave confirmed case fatality risk (2,169/48,557?=?4.5%) and the approximator1 of deaths/deaths?+?recoveries (2,169/2,169?+?17,572?=?11%) as of 29 February 2020. Compared to those aged 3059?years, those aged below 30 and above 59 years were 0.6 (0.31.1) and 5.1 (4.26.1) times more likely to die after developing symptoms.\n The risk of symptomatic infection increased with age (for example, at ~4% per year among adults aged 3060 years).\n","id":"PMC7094929","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Nature Publishing Group US","authors":[{"firstname":"Joseph T.","surname":"Wu","email":"joewu@hku.hk","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Kathy","surname":"Leung","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Kathy","surname":"Leung","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Mary","surname":"Bushman","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Nishant","surname":"Kishore","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Rene","surname":"Niehus","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Pablo M.","surname":"de Salazar","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Benjamin J.","surname":"Cowling","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Marc","surname":"Lipsitch","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Marc","surname":"Lipsitch","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Gabriel M.","surname":"Leung","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Risk for transportation of 2019 novel coronavirus disease from Wuhan to other cities in China","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"A familial cluster of pneumonia associated with the 2019 novel coronavirus indicating person-to-person transmission: a study of a family cluster","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Coronavirus COVID-19 global cases by the Centre for Systems Science Engineering (CSSE) at Johns Hopkins","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Epidemiological characteristics of influenza in Guangdong province, during winter of 2017-2018","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1101/2020.03.11.20033688","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Social distance and SARS memory: impact on the public awareness of 2019 novel coronavirus (COVID-19) outbreak","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Research report of the application of data and intelligence in the prevention and control of the COVID-19 epidemic","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"In coronavirus fight, China gives citizens a color code, with red flags","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"National data","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The epidemiological characteristics of an outbreak of 2019 novel coronavirus diseases (COVID-19):China","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"What can we learn from China's health system reform?","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The primary health-care system in China","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Hospitals in China, overwhelmed by coronavirus, turn away patients with other pressing needs","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Household transmission of 2009 pandemic influenza A (H1N1) virus in the United States","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus: quantification of the extent of the epidemic, surveillance biases, and transmissibility","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Unraveling the drivers of MERS-CoV transmission","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"To tame coronavirus, Mao-style social control blankets China","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Authoritarianism, outbreaks, and information politics","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Democracy and health","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Democracy and human development","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The relationships between democratic experience, adult health, and cause-specific mortality in 170 countries between 1980 and 2016: an observational analysis","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Wuhan, center of coronavirus outbreak, is being cut off by Chinese authorities","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"WHO Emergencies Coronavirus Emergency Committee Second Meeting","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/S0140-6736(20)30183-5","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Clinical features of patients infected with 2019 novel coronavirus in Wuhan, China","abstract":"Background\nA recent cluster of pneumonia cases in Wuhan, China, was caused by a novel betacoronavirus, the 2019 novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV).\n\n We report the epidemiological, clinical, laboratory, and radiological characteristics and treatment and clinical outcomes of these patients.\n\n\nMethods\nAll patients with suspected 2019-nCoV were admitted to a designated hospital in Wuhan.\n\n We prospectively collected and analysed data on patients with laboratory-confirmed 2019-nCoV infection by real-time RT-PCR and next-generation sequencing.\n\n Data were obtained with standardised data collection forms shared by WHO and the International Severe Acute Respiratory and Emerging Infection Consortium from electronic medical records.\n\n Researchers also directly communicated with patients or their families to ascertain epidemiological and symptom data.\n\n Outcomes were also compared between patients who had been admitted to the intensive care unit (ICU) and those who had not.\n\n\nFindings\nBy Jan 2, 2020, 41 admitted hospital patients had been identified as having laboratory-confirmed 2019-nCoV infection.\n\n Most of the infected patients were men (30 [73%] of 41); less than half had underlying diseases (13 [32%]), including diabetes (eight [20%]), hypertension (six [15%]), and cardiovascular disease (six [15%]).\n\n Median age was 490 years (IQR 410580).\n\n 27 (66%) of 41 patients had been exposed to Huanan seafood market.\n\n One family cluster was found.\n\n Common symptoms at onset of illness were fever (40 [98%] of 41 patients), cough (31 [76%]), and myalgia or fatigue (18 [44%]); less common symptoms were sputum production (11 [28%] of 39), headache (three [8%] of 38), haemoptysis (two [5%] of 39), and diarrhoea (one [3%] of 38).\n\n Dyspnoea developed in 22 (55%) of 40 patients (median time from illness onset to dyspnoea 80 days [IQR 50130]).\n\n 26 (63%) of 41 patients had lymphopenia.\n\n All 41 patients had pneumonia with abnormal findings on chest CT.\n\n Complications included acute respiratory distress syndrome (12 [29%]), RNAaemia (six [15%]), acute cardiac injury (five [12%]) and secondary infection (four [10%]).\n\n 13 (32%) patients were admitted to an ICU and six (15%) died.\n\n Compared with non-ICU patients, ICU patients had higher plasma levels of IL2, IL7, IL10, GSCF, IP10, MCP1, MIP1A, and TNF?.\n\n\nInterpretation\nThe 2019-nCoV infection caused clusters of severe respiratory illness similar to severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus and was associated with ICU admission and high mortality.\n\n Major gaps in our knowledge of the origin, epidemiology, duration of human transmission, and clinical spectrum of disease need fulfilment by future studies.\n\n\nFunding\nMinistry of Science and Technology, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences, National Natural Science Foundation of China, and Beijing Municipal Science and Technology Commission.\n\n\n","id":"PMC7159299","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Elsevier Ltd.","authors":[{"firstname":"Chaolin","surname":"Huang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yeming","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xingwang","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Lili","surname":"Ren","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jianping","surname":"Zhao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yi","surname":"Hu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Li","surname":"Zhang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Guohui","surname":"Fan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jiuyang","surname":"Xu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xiaoying","surname":"Gu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zhenshun","surname":"Cheng","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ting","surname":"Yu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jiaan","surname":"Xia","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yuan","surname":"Wei","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Wenjuan","surname":"Wu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xuelei","surname":"Xie","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Wen","surname":"Yin","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hui","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Min","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yan","surname":"Xiao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hong","surname":"Gao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Li","surname":"Guo","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jungang","surname":"Xie","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Guangfa","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Rongmeng","surname":"Jiang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zhancheng","surname":"Gao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Qi","surname":"Jin","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jianwei","surname":"Wang","email":"wangjw28@163.com","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Bin","surname":"Cao","email":"caobin_ben@163.com","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"China silences critics over deadly virus outbreak","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The mystery of the Wuhan epidemic: evidence from reptiles and text analysis","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Wuhan Mayor offers to resign over coronavirus response","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Questions and answers on pneumonia epidemic and new coronavirus infection. [In Chinese.]","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1056/NEJMoa2001316","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Early Transmission Dynamics in Wuhan, China, of Novel CoronavirusInfected Pneumonia","abstract":"Background\nThe initial cases of novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV)infected pneumonia (NCIP) occurred in Wuhan, Hubei Province, China, in December 2019 and January 2020. We analyzed data on the first 425 confirmed cases in Wuhan to determine the epidemiologic characteristics of NCIP.\n\n\nMethods\nWe collected information on demographic characteristics, exposure history, and illness timelines of laboratory-confirmed cases of NCIP that had been reported by January 22, 2020. We described characteristics of the cases and estimated the key epidemiologic time-delay distributions.\n\n In the early period of exponential growth, we estimated the epidemic doubling time and the basic reproductive number.\n\n\nResults\nAmong the first 425 patients with confirmed NCIP, the median age was 59 years and 56% were male.\n\n The majority of cases (55%) with onset before January 1, 2020, were linked to the Huanan Seafood Wholesale Market, as compared with 8.6% of the subsequent cases.\n\n The mean incubation period was 5.2 days (95% confidence interval [CI], 4.1 to 7.0), with the 95th percentile of the distribution at 12.5 days.\n\n In its early stages, the epidemic doubled in size every 7.4 days.\n\n With a mean serial interval of 7.5 days (95% CI, 5.3 to 19), the basic reproductive number was estimated to be 2.2 (95% CI, 1.4 to 3.9).\n\n\nConclusions\nOn the basis of this information, there is evidence that human-to-human transmission has occurred among close contacts since the middle of December 2019. Considerable efforts to reduce transmission will be required to control outbreaks if similar dynamics apply elsewhere.\n\n Measures to prevent or reduce transmission should be implemented in populations at risk.\n\n (Funded by the Ministry of Science and Technology of China and others.\n\n)\n","id":"PMC7121484","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Massachusetts Medical Society","authors":[{"firstname":"Qun","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xuhua","surname":"Guan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Peng","surname":"Wu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xiaoye","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Lei","surname":"Zhou","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yeqing","surname":"Tong","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ruiqi","surname":"Ren","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Kathy S.M.","surname":"Leung","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Eric H.Y.","surname":"Lau","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jessica Y.","surname":"Wong","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xuesen","surname":"Xing","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Nijuan","surname":"Xiang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yang","surname":"Wu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Chao","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Qi","surname":"Chen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Dan","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Tian","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jing","surname":"Zhao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Man","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Wenxiao","surname":"Tu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Chuding","surname":"Chen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Lianmei","surname":"Jin","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Rui","surname":"Yang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Qi","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Suhua","surname":"Zhou","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Rui","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hui","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yinbo","surname":"Luo","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yuan","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ge","surname":"Shao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Huan","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zhongfa","surname":"Tao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yang","surname":"Yang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zhiqiang","surname":"Deng","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Boxi","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zhitao","surname":"Ma","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yanping","surname":"Zhang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Guoqing","surname":"Shi","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Tommy T.Y.","surname":"Lam","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Joseph T.","surname":"Wu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"George F.","surname":"Gao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Benjamin J.","surname":"Cowling","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Bo","surname":"Yang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Bo","surname":"Yang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Gabriel M.","surname":"Leung","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zijian","surname":"Feng","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Early season estimate of influenza vaccination effectiveness against influenza hospitalisation in children, Hong Kong, winter influenza season 2018/19","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Centre for Health Protection (CHP). Flu Express. Volume 15, Number 52. Hong Kong: CHP; 2019. Available from: https://www.chp.gov.hk/files/pdf/fluexpress_week52_3_1_2019_eng.pdf.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Centre for Health Protection (CHP). Flu Express. Volume 16, Number 01. Hong Kong: CHP; 2019. Available from: https://www.chp.gov.hk/files/pdf/flux_wk1_10_1_2019_eng.pdf ","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/j.vaccine.2014.07.084","date":"2014-07-22","title":"The effectiveness of influenza vaccination in preventing hospitalizations in children in Hong Kong, 20092013","abstract":"Background\nInfluenza vaccination is widely recommended every year to protect individuals against influenza virus infection and illness.\n\n There are few published estimates of influenza vaccine effectiveness against hospitalization in children or from subtropical regions.\n\n\nMethods\nWe conducted a test-negative year-round study between October 2009 and September 2013, recruiting children 6months to 17years of age admitted to two hospitals in Hong Kong with a febrile acute respiratory infection.\n\n Cases were tested for influenza A and B and conditional logistic regression was used to estimate vaccine effectiveness comparing influenza vaccination history of the trivalent influenza vaccine (TIV) among patients testing positive versus negative for influenza, adjusting for age and sex and matching by calendar week of recruitment.\n\n\nResults\nOverall vaccine effectiveness against hospitalization with laboratory-confirmed influenza A and B was estimated to be 61.7% (95% CI: 43.0%, 74.2%).\n\n The estimated vaccine effectiveness against A(H3N2) was 36.6% (95% CI: ?25.5%, 67.9%) compared to 71.5% (95% CI: 39.4%, 86.6%) for A(H1N1)pdm09 and 68.8% (95% CI: 41.6%, 83.3%) for B.\n\n\nConclusions\nVaccine effectiveness against hospitalization in children varied from year to year, but was moderate to high overall even in an area with influenza activity throughout the year.\n\n\n","id":"PMC4165553","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Elsevier Ltd.","authors":[{"firstname":"Benjamin J.","surname":"Cowling","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Kwok-Hung","surname":"Chan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Shuo","surname":"Feng","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Eunice L.Y.","surname":"Chan","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Janice Y.C.","surname":"Lo","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"J.S. Malik","surname":"Peiris","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Susan S.","surname":"Chiu","email":"ssschiu@hkucc.hku.hk","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.1016/S2213-2600(18)30419-3","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Effectiveness of influenza vaccination on influenza-associated hospitalisations over time among children in Hong Kong: a test-negative case-control study.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1093/infdis/jiy027","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Influenza vaccine effectiveness against influenza A(H3N2) hospitalizations in children in Hong Kong in a prolonged season, 2016/2017.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/j.vaccine.2013.02.053","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The test-negative design for estimating influenza vaccine effectiveness.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1586/14760584.2014.966695","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Potential of the test-negative design for measuring influenza vaccine effectiveness: a systematic review.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). CDC's Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (ACIP) Recommends Universal Annual Influenza Vaccination. Atlanta: CDC; 2010. Available from: https://www.cdc.gov/media/pressrel/2010/r100224.htm ","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1093/aje/kww064","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Theoretical Basis of the Test-Negative Study Design for Assessment of Influenza Vaccine Effectiveness.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Centre for Health Protection (HCP). Statistics on 2018/19 Vaccination Programmes / Schemes. Hong Kong: CHP; Last accessed on Jan 18 2019. Available from: https://www.chp.gov.hk/en/features/26734.html.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1001/jama.2018.18373","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Is It Possible to Get a Flu Shot Too Early?","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.2807/1560-7917.ES.2019.24.4.1900055","date":"2019-01-24","title":"Interim estimates of 2018/19 vaccine effectiveness against influenza A(H1N1)pdm09, Canada, January 2019","abstract":"Using a test-negative design, the Canadian Sentinel Practitioner Surveillance Network assessed interim 2018/19 vaccine effectiveness (VE) against predominant influenza A(H1N1)pdm09 viruses.\n Adjusted VE was 72% (95% confidence interval: 60 to 81) against medically attended, laboratory-confirmed influenza A(H1N1)pdm09 illness.\n This substantial vaccine protection was observed in all age groups, notably young children who appeared to be disproportionately affected.\n Sequence analysis identified heterogeneity in emerging clade 6B.\n1 viruses but no dominant drift variant.\n","id":"PMC6351998","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC)","authors":[{"firstname":"Danuta M","surname":"Skowronski","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Siobhan","surname":"Leir","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Suzana","surname":"Sabaiduc","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Michelle","surname":"Murti","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"James A","surname":"Dickinson","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Romy","surname":"Olsha","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jonathan B","surname":"Gubbay","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Matthew A","surname":"Croxen","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Hugues","surname":"Charest","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Tracy","surname":"Chan","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Nathalie","surname":"Bastien","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yan","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Mel","surname":"Krajden","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Gaston","surname":"De Serres","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.1136/bmj.i1981","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Sparse data bias: a problem hiding in plain sight.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"A tale of two cities: community psychobehavioral surveillance and related impact on outbreak control in Hong Kong and Singapore during the severe acute respiratory syndrome epidemic","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Longitudinal assessment of community psychobehavioral responses during and after the 2003 outbreak of severe acute respiratory syndrome in Hong Kong","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Community psychological and behavioral responses through the first wave of the 2009 influenza A(H1N1) pandemic in Hong Kong","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Responses to threat of influenza A(H7N9) and support for live poultry markets, Hong Kong, 2013","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[{"doi":"10.1056/NEJMoa1304617","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Epidemiology of human infections with avian influenza A(H7N9) virus in China.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/S0140-6736(13)61171-X","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Comparative epidemiology of human infections with avian influenza A H7N9 and H5N1 viruses in China: a population-based study of laboratory-confirmed cases.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/S0140-6736(13)61904-2","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Effect of closure of live poultry markets on poultry-to-person transmission of avian influenza A H7N9 virus: an ecological study.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1056/NEJMp1304661","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Global concerns regarding novel influenza A (H7N9) virus infections.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1086/429923","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Longitudinal assessment of community psychobehavioral responses during and after the 2003 outbreak of severe acute respiratory syndrome in Hong Kong.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1086/655811","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Community psychological and behavioral responses through the first wave of the 2009 influenza A (H1N1) pandemic in Hong Kong.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.3201/eid1712.110298","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Changing Perception of Avian Influenza Risk, Hong Kong, 20062010","abstract":"","id":"PMC3311168","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Centers for Disease Control and Prevention","authors":[{"firstname":"Qiuyan","surname":"Liao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Benjamin J.","surname":"Cowling","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Wing Tak","surname":"Lam","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Richard","surname":"Fielding","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1080/01621459.1949.10483314","date":"1970-01-01","title":"A procedure for objective respondent selection within the household.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Preliminary inferences on the age-specific seriousness of human disease caused by avian influenza A(H7N9) infections in China, March to April 2013.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/j.epidem.2009.09.002","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Live poultry exposure, Guangzhou, China, 2006.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1111/j.1539-6924.2008.01157.x","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Avian influenza risk perception and live poultry purchase in Guangzhou, China, 2006.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.3201/eid1808.111879","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Avian Influenza and Ban on Overnight Poultry Storage in Live Poultry Markets, Hong Kong","abstract":"We analyzed ?12 years of surveillance data on avian influenza in Hong Kong live poultry markets.\n A ban on keeping live poultry overnight in these markets reduced virus isolation rates by 84% in chickens (p = 0.006) and 100% (p = 0.01) in minor poultry.\n","id":"PMC3414033","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Centers for Disease Control and Prevention","authors":[{"firstname":"Y.H. Connie","surname":"Leung","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Eric H.Y.","surname":"Lau","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Li Juan","surname":"Zhang","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Yi","surname":"Guan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Benjamin J.","surname":"Cowling","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"J.S. Malik","surname":"Peiris","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"EpiEstim: estimate time varying reproduction numbers from epidemic curves","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Improved inference of time-varying reproduction numbers during infectious disease outbreaks","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus in healthcare settings","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Transmission dynamics of the 2009 influenza A (H1N1) pandemic in India: the impact of holiday-related school closure","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Global hotspots and correlates of emerging zoonotic diseases","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Rapid drop in the reproduction number during the Ebola outbreak in the Democratic Republic of the Congo","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Estimation of time-dependent reproduction numbers for porcine reproductive and respiratory syndrome across different regions and production systems of the US","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Spatiotemporal analysis of the 2014 Ebola epidemic in West Africa","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Temporal changes in Ebola Transmission in Sierra Leone and implications for control requirements: a real-time modelling study","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Bayesian inference of transmission chains using timing of symptoms, pathogen genomes and contact data","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Estimating in real time the efficacy of measures to control emerging communicable diseases","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Real-time estimates in early detection of SARS","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Household transmission of 2009 pandemic influenza A (H1N1) virus in the United States","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Role of social networks in shaping disease transmission during a community outbreak of 2009 H1N1 pandemic influenza","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus: quantification of the extent of the epidemic, surveillance biases, and transmissibility","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Unraveling the drivers of MERS-CoV transmission","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"New technologies in predicting, preventing and controlling emerging infectious diseases","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"A new framework and software to estimate time-varying reproduction numbers during epidemics","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Key data for outbreak evaluation: building on the Ebola experience","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"A graph-based evidence synthesis approach to detecting outbreak clusters: an application to dog rabies","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Preliminary findings of a randomized trial of non-pharmaceutical interventions to prevent influenza transmission in households","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Estimation of the serial interval of influenza","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The effective reproduction number of pandemic influenza: prospective estimation","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Optimising and communicating options for the control of invasive plant disease when there is epidemiological uncertainty","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Modeling when, where, and how to manage a forest epidemic, motivated by sudden oak death in California","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Unreported cases in the 2014-2016 Ebola epidemic: spatiotemporal variation, and implications for estimating transmission","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Emerging infectious diseases of wildlife - threats to biodiversity and human health","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Serial intervals and the temporal distribution of secondary infections within households of 2009 pandemic influenza A (H1N1): implications for influenza control recommendations","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Transmission of Ebola hemorrhagic fever: a study of risk factors in family members, Kikwit, Democratic Republic of the Congo, 1995","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"A simple model for complex dynamical transitions in epidemics","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Scientific opinion on the risk to plant health posed by Xylella fastidiosa in the EU territory, with the identification and evaluation of risk reduction options","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The foot-and-mouth epidemic in Great Britain: pattern of spread and impact of interventions","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Countering the Zika epidemic in Latin America","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The interval between successive cases of an infectious disease","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Emerging fungal threats to animal, plant and ecosystem health","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Seasonality of infectious diseases","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"A likelihood-based method for real-time estimation of the serial interval and reproductive number of an epidemic","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Estimation of the reproductive number and the serial interval in early phase of the 2009 influenza A/H1N1 pandemic in the USA","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Ebola hemorrhagic fever transmission and risk factors of contacts, Uganda","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Estimating individual and household reproduction numbers in an emerging epidemic","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Pandemic potential of a strain of influenza A (H1N1): early findings","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Mers-CoV at the animal-human interface: inputs on exposure pathways from an expert-opinion elicitation","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Yellow Fever in Africa: estimating the burden of disease and impact of mass vaccination from outbreak and serological data","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Estimating reproduction numbers for adults and children from case data","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Seasonal infectious disease epidemiology","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Joint estimation of the basic reproduction number and generation time parameters for infectious disease outbreaks","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus in dromedary camels: an outbreak investigation","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/j.epidem.2019.100371","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Accurate forecasts of the effectiveness of interventions against Ebola may require models that account for variations in symptoms during infection","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Exposure patterns driving Ebola transmission in West Africa","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Bayesian reconstruction of disease outbreaks by combining epidemiological and genomic data","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Global trends in emerging infectious diseases","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Dynamics of the 2001 UK foot and mouth epidemic: stochastic dispersal in a heterogeneous landscape","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Models of foot-and-mouth disease","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Projections of Ebola outbreak size and duration with and without vaccine use in Equateur, Democratic Republic of the Congo, as of May 27, 2019","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Impact of interventions and the incidence of ebola virus disease in Liberia - implications for future epidemics","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Outbreak of 2009 pandemic influenza A (H1N1) at a New York City school","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Invited commentary: real-time tracking of control measures for emerging infections","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Opinion: mathematical models: a key tool for outbreak response","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Seasonal population dynamics and behaviour of insects in models of vector-borne pathogens","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"A statistical framework for the adaptive management of epidemiological interventions","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Opportunities and challenges in modeling emerging infectious diseases","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The challenge of emerging and re-emerging infectious diseases","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Household transmission of pandemic (H1N1) 2009, San Antonio, Texas, USA, April-May 2009","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"How decision makers can use quantitative approaches to guide outbreak responses","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"A simple approach to measure transmissibility and forecast incidence","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The R0 package: a toolbox to estimate reproduction numbers for epidemic outbreaks","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"MVSE: an R-package that estimates a climate-driven mosquito-borne viral suitability index","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Transmissibility of 2009 pandemic influenza A (H1N1) in New Zealand: effective reproduction number and influence of age, ethnicity and importations","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"A practical generation-interval-based approach to inferring the strength of epidemics from their speed","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Outbreak analytics: a developing data science for informing the response to emerging pathogens","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Estimating incubation periods with coarse data","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Adaptive management and the value of information: learning via intervention in epidemiology","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Economic and disease burden of dengue in Southeast Asia","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Risk factors for human disease emergence","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Modeling the spread and control of foot-and-mouth disease in Pennsylvania following its discovery and options for control","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Outbreak of Ebola virus disease in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, April-May, 2018: an epidemiological study","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Detecting presymptomatic infection is necessary to forecast major epidemics in the earliest stages of infectious disease outbreaks","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Control fast or control smart? When should invading pathogens be controlled?","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Detection, forecasting and control of infectious disease epidemics: modelling outbreaks in humans, animals and plants","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Increased frequency of travel in the presence of cross-immunity may act to decrease the chance of a global pandemic","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Rigorous surveillance is necessary for high confidence in end-of-outbreak declarations for Ebola and other infectious diseases","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Nowcasting the number of new symptomatic cases during infectious disease outbreaks using constrained P-spline smoothing","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Determinants of rotavirus transmission. A lag nonlinear time series analysis","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Serial intervals of respiratory infectious diseases: a systematic review and analysis","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Different epidemic curves for Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome reveal similar impacts of control measures","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"How generation intervals shape the relationship between growth rates and reproductive numbers","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Optimizing infectious disease interventions during an emerging epidemic","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Ebola virus disease in West Africa : the first 9 months of the epidemic and forward projections","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Responding to the threat of urban yellow fever outbreaks","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"A one-year effective reproduction number of the 2014-2015 Ebola outbreaks in the widespread West African countries and quantitative evaluation of air travel restriction measure","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Finding evidence for local transmission of contagious disease in molecular epidemiological datasets","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Early transmission dynamics in Wuhan, China, of novel coronavirus-infected pneumonia","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The 2019-nCoV Outbreak Joint Field Epidemiology Investigation Team, Li Q. Notes from the field: an outbreak of NCIP (2019-nCoV) infection in China : Wuhan, Hubei Province, 2019-2020.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"A novel coronavirus genome identified in a cluster of pneumonia cases : Wuhan, China 2019-2020.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"A novel coronavirus from patients with pneumonia in China, 2019.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Use of national pneumonia surveillance to describe influenza A(H7N9) virus epidemiology, China, 2004-2013.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"A novel coronavirus emerging in China : key questions for impact assessment.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Evidence for camel-to-human transmission of MERS coronavirus.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Transmission dynamics and control of severe acute respiratory syndrome.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Dynamically modeling SARS and other newly emerging respiratory illnesses: past, present, and future.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Coronavirus infections : more than just the common cold.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Another decade, another coronavirus.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"SARS and MERS: recent insights into emerging coronaviruses.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"MERS, SARS, and Ebola: the role of super-spreaders in infectious disease.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"A familial cluster of pneumonia associated with the 2019 novel coronavirus indicating person-to-person transmission: a study of a family cluster.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Real-time tentative assessment of the epidemiological characteristics of novel coronavirus infections in Wuhan, China, as at January 2020.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"How to maintain surveillance for novel influenza A H1N1 when there are too many cases to count.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Improving the estimation of influenza-related mortality over a seasonal baseline","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Mortality associated with influenza and respiratory syncytial virus in the United States","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1371/journal.pmed.1001051","date":"2011-05-18","title":"Predicting the Epidemic Sizes of Influenza A/H1N1, A/H3N2, and B: A Statistical Method","abstract":"Using weekly influenza surveillance data from the US CDC, Edward Goldstein and colleagues develop a statistical method to predict the sizes of epidemics caused by seasonal influenza strains.\n This method could inform decisions about the most appropriate vaccines or drugs needed early in the influenza season.\n","id":"PMC3130020","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Public Library of Science","authors":[{"firstname":"Edward","surname":"Goldstein","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Sarah","surname":"Cobey","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Saki","surname":"Takahashi","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Joel C.","surname":"Miller","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Marc","surname":"Lipsitch","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Derek A. T.","surname":"Cummings","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Derek A. T.","surname":"Cummings","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Estimates of US influenza-associated deaths made using four different methods","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Mortality due to influenza in the United States--an annualized regression approach using multiple-cause mortality data","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Methods for current statistical analysis of excess pneumonia-influenza deaths","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The impact of influenza epidemics on mortality: introducing a severity index","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Circulating influenza virus, climatic factors, and acute myocardial infarction: a time series study in England and Wales and Hong Kong","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Changing epidemiology of invasive pneumococcal disease among older adults in the era of pediatric pneumococcal conjugate vaccine","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Decline in invasive pneumococcal disease after the introduction of protein-polysaccharide conjugate vaccine","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Direct and indirect effects of routine vaccination of children with 7-valent pneumococcal conjugate vaccine on incidence of invasive pneumococcal disease--United States, 1998-2003","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Impact of pneumococcal conjugate vaccination of infants on pneumonia and influenza hospitalization and mortality in all age groups in the United States","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Holiday spikes in pneumococcal disease among older adults","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Estimating influenza-associated deaths in the United States","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Interim results: state-specific influenza A (H1N1) 2009 monovalent vaccination coverage - United States, October 2009-January 2010","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Comparability of cause of death between ICD-9 and ICD-10: preliminary estimates","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Mortality and influenza","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The Size and Power of the Bias-Corrected Bootstrap Test for Regression Models with Autocorrelated Errors","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Winter mortality modifies the heat-mortality association the following summer","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Summer temperature-related mortality: effect modification by previous winter mortality","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Estimating deaths due to influenza and respiratory syncytial virus","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Influenza and the winter increase in mortality in the United States, 1959-1999","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Estimates of deaths associated with seasonal influenza --- United States, 1976-2007","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Estimating the burden of 2009 pandemic influenza A (H1N1) in the United States (April 2009-April 2010)","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"A Maximum Likelihood Procedure for Regression with Autocorrelated Errors","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Infection fatality risk of the pandemic A(H1N1)2009 virus in Hong Kong","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Ambient ozone and influenza transmissibility in Hong Kong","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Environmental role in influenza virus outbreaks","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Modulation of host defenses by exposure to oxidant air pollutants","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Driving factors of influenza transmission in the netherlands","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Improving the estimation of influenza-related mortality over a seasonal baseline","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Brief Original Contribution Infection Fatality Risk of the Pandemic A (H1N1) 2009 Virus in Hong Kong","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"A new framework and software to estimate time-varying reproduction numbers during epidemics","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The serial intervals of seasonal and pandemic influenza viruses in households in Bangkok, Thailand","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Dynamical resonance can account for seasonality of influenza epidemics","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Ozone for inactivation of aerosolized bacteriophages","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Integrated science assessment for ozone and related photochemical oxidants","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"IL-33 Drives Augmented Responses to Ozone in Obese Mice","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The Alarmin Interleukin-33 Drives Protective Antiviral CD8+ T Cell Responses","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Innate lymphoid cells promote lung tissue homeostasis following acute influenza virus infection","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"IL-33 isoforms: their future as vaccine adjuvants?","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"A new framework and software to estimate time-varying reproduction numbers during epidemics","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Strategies for mitigating an influenza pandemic","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Factors that make an infectious disease outbreak controllable","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Directly transmitted infectious diseases: control by vaccination","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Transmission dynamics of the etiological agent of SARS in Hong Kong: impact of public health interventions","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Pandemic potential of a strain of influenza A (H1N1): early findings","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Transmission intensity and impact of control policies on the foot and mouth epidemic in Great Britain","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Definition and estimation of an actual reproduction number describing past infectious disease transmission: application to HIV epidemics among homosexual men in Denmark, Norway and Sweden","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Real time Bayesian estimation of the epidemic potential of emerging infectious diseases","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The estimation of the effective reproductive number from disease outbreak data","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Estimation of a time-varying force of infection and basic reproduction number with application to an outbreak of classical swine fever","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Pandemic (H1N1) 2009 influenza community transmission was established in one Australian state when the virus was first identified in North America","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Different epidemic curves for severe acute respiratory syndrome reveal similar impacts of control measures","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Real-time estimates in early detection of SARS","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Estimating in real time the efficacy of measures to control emerging communicable diseases","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Temporal variability and social heterogeneity in disease transmission: the case of SARS in Hong Kong","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Transmissibility of the influenza virus in the 1918 pandemic","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Estimating the effective reproduction number for pandemic influenza from notification data made publicly available in real time: a multi-country analysis for influenza A/H1N1v 2009","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Estimating individual and household reproduction numbers in an emerging epidemic","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Influenza transmission in households during the 1918 pandemic","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Viral shedding and clinical illness in naturally acquired influenza virus infections","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Clinical progression and viral load in a community outbreak of coronavirus-associated SARS pneumonia: a prospective study","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Infectiousness of communicable diseases in the household (measles, chickenpox, and mumps)","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Transmission potential of smallpox: estimates based on detailed data from an outbreak","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"A major outbreak of severe acute respiratory syndrome in Hong Kong","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The epidemiology of severe acute respiratory syndrome in the 2003 Hong Kong epidemic: an analysis of all 1755 patients","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Role of social networks in shaping disease transmission during a community outbreak of 2009 H1N1 pandemic influenza","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Time from HIV-1 seroconversion to AIDS and death before widespread use of highly-active antiretroviral therapy: a collaborative re-analysis","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"New strategies for the elimination of polio from India","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The effective reproduction number of pandemic influenza: prospective estimation","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Estimation of the reproduction number for 2009 pandemic influenza A(H1N1) in the presence of imported cases&quot; [letter]","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Transmissibility of 2009 pandemic influenza A(H1N1) in New Zealand: effective reproduction number and influence of age, ethnicity and importations","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Bayesian inference for contact networks given epidemic data","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Influenza in Maryland: preliminary statistics of certain localities","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Estimates of the reproduction numbers of Spanish influenza using morbidity data","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Strategies for containing an emerging influenza pandemic in Southeast Asia","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Transmission parameters of the A/H1N1 (2009) influenza virus pandemic: a review","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Transmission potential of smallpox in contemporary populations","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Smallpox transmission and control: spatial dynamics in Great Britain","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Transmission dynamics and control of severe acute respiratory syndrome","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"How generation intervals shape the relationship between growth rates and reproductive numbers","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Some problems in interval estimation","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Inferring influenza infection attack rate from seroprevalence data","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Studies Needed to Address Public Health Challenges of the 2009 H1N1 Influenza Pandemic: Insights from Modeling","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Improving the evidence base for decision making during a pandemic: the example of 2009 influenza A/H1N1","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Fineberg HV, Aavitsland P, Aditama T, Bino S, Carmo EH, .. (2011) Implementation of the international health regulations (2005): report of the Review Committee on the Functioning of the International Health Regulations (2005) and on Pandemic Influenza A(H1N1) 2009. Geneva: World Health Organization.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Seroprevalence to influenza A(H1N1) 2009 virus-where are we?","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Estimating age-specific cumulative incidence for the 2009 influenza pandemic: a meta-analysis of A(H1N1)pdm09 serological studies from 19 countries","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Risk Factors and Immunity in a Nationally Representative Population following the 2009 Influenza A(H1N1) Pandemic","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Serological Response in RT-PCR Confirmed H1N1-2009 Influenza A by Hemagglutination Inhibition and Virus Neutralization Assays: An Observational Study","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Prevalence of Antibodies to 2009 Pandemic Influenza A (H1N1) Virus in German Adult Population in Pre- and Post-Pandemic Period","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Seroprevalence of 2009 pandemic influenza A(H1N1) virus in Australian blood donors, October - December, 2009","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Incidence of 2009 pandemic influenza A H1N1 infection in England: a cross-sectional serological study","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The Infection Attack Rate and Severity of 2009 Pandemic H1N1 Influenza in Hong Kong","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Age-Specific Incidence of A/H1N1 2009 Influenza Infection in England from Sequential Antibody Prevalence Data Using Likelihood-Based Estimation","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Estimating Infection Attack Rates and Severity in Real Time during an Influenza Pandemic: Analysis of Serial Cross-Sectional Serologic Surveillance Data","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Prevalence of 2009 pandemic influenza A (H1N1) virus antibodies, Tampa Bay Florida-November-December, 2009","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Prevalence of Seropositivity to Pandemic Influenza A/H1N1 Virus in the United States following the 2009 Pandemic","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Hens N, Shkedy Z, Aerts M, Faes C, Van Damme P, .. (2012) Modeling Infectious Disease Parameters Based on Serological and Social Contact Data: Springer. 298 p.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Age-Dependent Patterns of Infection and Severity Explaining the Low Impact of 2009 Influenza A (H1N1): Evidence From Serial Serologic Surveys in the Netherlands","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Analysis of rubella antibody distribution from newborn dried blood spots using finite mixture models","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The burden of parvovirus B19 infection in women of childbearing age in England and Wales","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The Effective Reproduction Number of Pandemic Influenza: Prospective Estimation","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"School Closure and Mitigation of Pandemic (H1N1) 2009, Hong Kong","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The infection attack rate and severity of 2009 pandemic influenza (H1N1) in Hong Kong","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Effect of Clinical and Virological Parameters on the Level of Neutralizing Antibody against Pandemic Influenza A Virus H1N1 2009","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Sensitivity and Specificity of Serologic Assays for Detection of Human Infection with 2009 Pandemic H1N1 Virus in U.S. Populations","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Comparative Epidemiology of Pandemic and Seasonal Influenza A in Households","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Social Contacts and Mixing Patterns Relevant to the Spread of Infectious Diseases","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Transmission parameters of the A/H1N1 (2009) influenza virus pandemic: a review","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Household Transmission of 2009 Pandemic Influenza A (H1N1) Virus in the United States","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Role of social networks in shaping disease transmission during a community outbreak of 2009 H1N1 pandemic influenza","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Assessment of baseline age-specific antibody prevalence and incidence of infection to novel influenza A/H1N1","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Evaluation of Serological Diagnostic Methods for the 2009 Pandemic Influenza A (H1N1) Virus","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Comparison of influenza serological techniques by international collaborative study","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Sero-immunity and serologic response to pandemic influenza A (H1N1) 2009 virus in Hong Kong","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Cytotoxic T lymphocytes established by seasonal human influenza cross-react against 2009 pandemic H1N1 influenza virus","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Seasonality of influenza A(H3N2) virus: a Hong Kong perspective (1997-2006)","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Influenza infection rates, measurement errors and the interpretation of paired serology","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Bayesian modeling to unmask and predict influenza A/H1N1pdm dynamics in London","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Estimate of 2009 H1N1 influenza cases in Shenzhen-the biggest migratory city in China","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Mitigation of influenza B epidemic with school closures, Hong Kong, 2018","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[{"doi":"10.1038/s41598-017-01021-x","date":"2017-03-23","title":"A joint analysis of influenza-associated hospitalizations and mortality in Hong Kong, 19982013","abstract":"Influenza viruses may cause severe human infections leading to hospitalization or death.\n Linear regression models were fitted to population-based data on hospitalizations and deaths.\n Surveillance data on influenza virus activity permitted inference on influenza-associated hospitalizations and deaths.\n The ratios of these estimates were used as a potential indicator of severity.\n Influenza was associated with 431 (95% CrI: 358503) respiratory deaths and 12,700 (95% CrI: 11,70013,700) respiratory hospitalizations per year.\n Majority of the excess deaths occurred in persons ?65?y of age.\n The ratios of deaths to hospitalizations in adults ?65?y were significantly higher for influenza A(H1N1) and A(H1N1)pdm09 compared to A(H3N2) and B.\n Substantial disease burden associated with influenza viruses were estimated in Hong Kong particularly among children and elderly in 19982013. Infections with influenza A(H1N1) was suggested to be more serious than A(H3N2) in older adults.\n","id":"PMC5430505","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Nature Publishing Group UK","authors":[{"firstname":"Peng","surname":"Wu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Anne M.","surname":"Presanis","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Helen S.","surname":"Bond","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Eric H. Y.","surname":"Lau","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Vicky J.","surname":"Fang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Vicky J.","surname":"Fang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Benjamin J.","surname":"Cowling","email":"bcowling@hku.hk","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.3201/eid1410.080646","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Effects of School Closures, 2008 Winter Influenza Season, Hong Kong","abstract":"In winter 2008, kindergartens and primary schools in Hong Kong were closed for 2 weeks after media coverage indicated that 3 children had died, apparently from influenza.\n We examined prospective influenza surveillance data before, during, and after the closure.\n We did not find a substantial effect on community transmission.\n","id":"PMC2609897","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Centers for Disease Control and Prevention","authors":[{"firstname":"Benjamin J.","surname":"Cowling","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Eric H.Y.","surname":"Lau","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Conrad L.H.","surname":"Lam","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Calvin K.Y.","surname":"Cheng","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jana","surname":"Kovar","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Kwok Hung","surname":"Chan","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"J.S. Malik","surname":"Peiris","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Gabriel M.","surname":"Leung","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.3201/eid1603.091216","date":"1970-01-01","title":"School Closure and Mitigation of Pandemic (H1N1) 2009, Hong Kong","abstract":"In Hong Kong, kindergartens and primary schools were closed when local transmission of pandemic (H1N1) 2009 was identified.\n Secondary schools closed for summer vacation shortly afterwards.\n By fitting a model of reporting and transmission to case data, we estimated that transmission was reduced ?25% when secondary schools closed.\n","id":"PMC3206396","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Centers for Disease Control and Prevention","authors":[{"firstname":"Joseph T.","surname":"Wu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Benjamin J.","surname":"Cowling","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Eric H.Y.","surname":"Lau","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Dennis K.M.","surname":"Ip","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Lai-Ming","surname":"Ho","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Thomas","surname":"Tsang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Shuk-Kwan","surname":"Chuang","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Pak-Yin","surname":"Leung","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Su-Vui","surname":"Lo","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Shao-Haei","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Steven","surname":"Riley","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Local situation of influenza activity (as of Feb 7, 2018)","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.15585/mmwr.mm6706a1","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Update: Influenza Activity  United States, October 1, 2017February 3, 2018","abstract":"","id":"PMC5815487","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Centers for Disease Control and Prevention","authors":[{"firstname":"Alicia P.","surname":"Budd","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"David E.","surname":"Wentworth","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Lenee","surname":"Blanton","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Anwar Isa Abd","surname":"Elal","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Noreen","surname":"Alabi","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"John","surname":"Barnes","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Lynnette","surname":"Brammer","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Erin","surname":"Burns","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Charisse N.","surname":"Cummings","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Todd","surname":"Davis","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Brendan","surname":"Flannery","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Alicia M.","surname":"Fry","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Shikha","surname":"Garg","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Rebecca","surname":"Garten","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Larisa","surname":"Gubareva","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Yunho","surname":"Jang","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Krista","surname":"Kniss","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Natalie","surname":"Kramer","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Stephen","surname":"Lindstrom","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Desiree","surname":"Mustaquim","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Alissa","surname":"OHalloran","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Sonja J.","surname":"Olsen","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Wendy","surname":"Sessions","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Calli","surname":"Taylor","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Xiyan","surname":"Xu","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Vivien G.","surname":"Dugan","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jacqueline","surname":"Katz","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Daniel","surname":"Jernigan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1093/aje/kws314","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Infection fatality risk of the pandemic A(H1N1)2009 virus in Hong Kong.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1183/13993003.00369-2018","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Ambient ozone and influenza transmissibility in Hong Kong.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Influenza virus subtyping in 2018","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1371/journal.pmed.1001051","date":"2011-05-18","title":"Predicting the Epidemic Sizes of Influenza A/H1N1, A/H3N2, and B: A Statistical Method","abstract":"Using weekly influenza surveillance data from the US CDC, Edward Goldstein and colleagues develop a statistical method to predict the sizes of epidemics caused by seasonal influenza strains.\n This method could inform decisions about the most appropriate vaccines or drugs needed early in the influenza season.\n","id":"PMC3130020","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Public Library of Science","authors":[{"firstname":"Edward","surname":"Goldstein","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Sarah","surname":"Cobey","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Saki","surname":"Takahashi","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Joel C.","surname":"Miller","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Marc","surname":"Lipsitch","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Derek A. T.","surname":"Cummings","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Derek A. T.","surname":"Cummings","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1093/aje/kwj274","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Estimating in real time the efficacy of measures to control emerging communicable diseases.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1056/NEJMoa0911530","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Comparative epidemiology of pandemic and seasonal influenza A in households.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/S1473-3099(09)70176-8","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Closure of schools during an influenza pandemic","abstract":"In response to WHO raising the influenza pandemic alert level from phase five to phase six, health officials around the world are carefully reviewing pandemic mitigation protocols.\n School closure (also called class dismissal in North America) is a non-pharmaceutical intervention that is commonly suggested for mitigating influenza pandemics.\n Health officials taking the decision to close schools must weigh the potential health benefits of reducing transmission and thus case numbers against high economic and social costs, difficult ethical issues, and the possible disruption of key services such as health care.\n Also, if schools are expected to close as a deliberate policy option, or just because of high levels of staff absenteeism, it is important to plan to mitigate the negative features of closure.\n In this context, there is still debate about if, when, and how school closure policy should be used.\n In this Review, we take a multidisciplinary and holistic perspective and review the multiple aspects of school closure as a public health policy.\n Implications for the mitigation of the swine-origin influenza A H1N1 pandemic are also discussed.\n","id":"PMC7106429","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Elsevier Ltd.","authors":[{"firstname":"Simon","surname":"Cauchemez","email":"s.cauchemez@imperial.ac.uk","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Neil M","surname":"Ferguson","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Claude","surname":"Wachtel","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Anders","surname":"Tegnell","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Guillaume","surname":"Saour","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ben","surname":"Duncan","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Angus","surname":"Nicoll","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.2807/1560-7917.ES.2018.23.8.18-00062","date":"2018-02-20","title":"Interim estimate of influenza vaccine effectiveness in hospitalised children, Hong Kong, 2017/18","abstract":"We conducted a hospital-based test-negative study in Hong Kong to estimate influenza vaccine effectiveness (VE) for the winter of 2017/18. The interim analysis included data on 1,078 children admitted between 4 December 2017 and 31 January 2018 with febrile acute respiratory illness and tested for influenza.\n We estimated influenza VE at 66% (95% confidence interval (CI): 4379) overall, and 65% (95% CI: 4080) against influenza B, the dominant virus type (predominantly B/Yamagata).\n","id":"PMC5829533","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC)","authors":[{"firstname":"Susan S","surname":"Chiu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Mike Y W","surname":"Kwan","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Shuo","surname":"Feng","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Joshua S C","surname":"Wong","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Chi-Wai","surname":"Leung","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Eunice L Y","surname":"Chan","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"J S Malik","surname":"Peiris","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Benjamin J","surname":"Cowling","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Effectiveness of control measures during the SARS epidemic in Beijing: a comparison of the Rt curve and the epidemic curve","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Epidemiological research priorities for public health control of the ongoing global novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV) outbreak","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[{"doi":"10.1038/s41586-020-2012-7","date":"2020-01-29","title":"A pneumonia outbreak associated with a new coronavirus of probable bat origin","abstract":"id='Par1'>Since the outbreak of severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) 18years ago, a large number of SARS-related coronaviruses (SARSr-CoVs) have been discovered in their natural reservoir host, bats14.\n Previous studies have shown that some bat SARSr-CoVs have the potential to infect humans57.\n Here we report the identification and characterization of a new coronavirus (2019-nCoV), which caused an epidemic of acute respiratory syndrome in humans in Wuhan, China.\n The epidemic, which started on 12 December 2019, had caused 2,794 laboratory-confirmed infections including 80 deaths by 26 January 2020. Full-length genome sequences were obtained from five patients at an early stage of the outbreak.\n The sequences are almost identical and share 79.6% sequence identity to SARS-CoV.\n Furthermore, we show that 2019-nCoV is 96% identical at the whole-genome level to a bat coronavirus.\n Pairwise protein sequence analysis of seven conserved non-structural proteins domains show that this virus belongs to the species of SARSr-CoV.\n In addition, 2019-nCoV virus isolated from the bronchoalveolar lavage fluid of a critically ill patient could be neutralized by sera from several patients.\n Notably, we confirmed that 2019-nCoV uses the same cell entry receptorangiotensin converting enzyme II (ACE2)as SARS-CoV.\n","id":"PMC7095418","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Nature Publishing Group UK","authors":[{"firstname":"Peng","surname":"Zhou","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xing-Lou","surname":"Yang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xian-Guang","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ben","surname":"Hu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Lei","surname":"Zhang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Wei","surname":"Zhang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hao-Rui","surname":"Si","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yan","surname":"Zhu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Bei","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Chao-Lin","surname":"Huang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hui-Dong","surname":"Chen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jing","surname":"Chen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yun","surname":"Luo","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hua","surname":"Guo","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ren-Di","surname":"Jiang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Mei-Qin","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ying","surname":"Chen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xu-Rui","surname":"Shen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xi","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xiao-Shuang","surname":"Zheng","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Kai","surname":"Zhao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Quan-Jiao","surname":"Chen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Fei","surname":"Deng","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Lin-Lin","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Bing","surname":"Yan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Fa-Xian","surname":"Zhan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yan-Yi","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Geng-Fu","surname":"Xiao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zheng-Li","surname":"Shi","email":"zlshi@wh.iov.cn","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.2807/1560-7917.ES.2020.25.3.2000044","date":"2020-01-23","title":"Real-time tentative assessment of the epidemiological characteristics of novel coronavirus infections in Wuhan, China, as at 22 January 2020","abstract":"A novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV) causing severe acute respiratory disease emerged recently in Wuhan, China.\n Information on reported cases strongly indicates human-to-human spread, and the most recent information is increasingly indicative of sustained human-to-human transmission.\n While the overall severity profile among cases may change as more mild cases are identified, we estimate a risk of fatality among hospitalised cases at 14% (95% confidence interval: 3.932%).\n","id":"PMC6988272","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC)","authors":[{"firstname":"Peng","surname":"Wu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xinxin","surname":"Hao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Eric H Y","surname":"Lau","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jessica Y","surname":"Wong","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Kathy S M","surname":"Leung","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Joseph T","surname":"Wu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Benjamin J","surname":"Cowling","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Gabriel M","surname":"Leung","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.2807/1560-7917.ES.2020.25.5.2000062","date":"2020-02-06","title":"Incubation period of 2019 novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV) infections among travellers from Wuhan, China, 2028 January 2020","abstract":"A novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV) is causing an outbreak of viral pneumonia that started in Wuhan, China.\n Using the travel history and symptom onset of 88 confirmed cases that were detected outside Wuhan in the early outbreak phase, we estimate the mean incubation period to be 6.4 days (95% credible interval: 5.67.7), ranging from 2.1 to 11.1 days (2.5th to 97.5th percentile).\n These values should help inform 2019-nCoV case definitions and appropriate quarantine durations.\n","id":"PMC7014672","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC)","authors":[{"firstname":"Jantien A","surname":"Backer","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Don","surname":"Klinkenberg","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Don","surname":"Klinkenberg","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jacco","surname":"Wallinga","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jacco","surname":"Wallinga","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Cohen E. China says coronavirus can spread before symptoms show -- calling into question US containment strategy. Atlanta: CNN. [Accessed 4 Feb 2020]. Available from: https://edition.cnn.com/2020/01/26/health/coronavirus-spread-symptoms-chinese-officials/index.html ","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1093/aje/kwm082","date":"2007-02-05","title":"Estimating Variability in the Transmission of Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome to Household Contacts in Hong Kong, China","abstract":"The extensive data collection and contact tracing that occurred during the 2003 outbreak of severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) in Hong Kong, China, allowed the authors to examine how the probability of transmission varied from the date of symptom onset to the date of hospitalization for household contacts of SARS patients.\n Using a discrete-time likelihood model, the authors estimated the transmission probability per contact for each day following the onset of symptoms.\n The results suggested that there may be two peaks in the probability of SARS transmission, the first occurring around day 2 after symptom onset and the second occurring approximately 10 days after symptom onset.\n Index patients who were aged 60 years or older or whose lactate dehydrogenase level was elevated upon admission to the hospital (indicating higher viral loads) were more likely to transmit SARS to their contacts.\n There was little variation in the daily transmission probabilities before versus after the introduction of public health interventions on or around March 26, 2003. This study suggests that the probability of transmission of SARS is dependent upon characteristics of the index patients and does not simply reflect temporal variability in the viral load of SARS cases.\n","id":"PMC7110150","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Oxford University Press","authors":[{"firstname":"Virginia E.","surname":"Pitzer","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Gabriel M.","surname":"Leung","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Marc","surname":"Lipsitch","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1016/S0140-6736(03)13412-5","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Clinical progression and viral load in a community outbreak of coronavirus-associated SARS pneumonia: a prospective study","abstract":"Background\nWe investigated the temporal progression of the clinical, radiological, and virological changes in a community outbreak of severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS).\n\n\nMethods\nWe followed up 75 patients for 3 weeks managed with a standard treatment protocol of ribavirin and corticosteroids, and assessed the pattern of clinical disease, viral load, risk factors for poor clinical outcome, and the usefulness of virological diagnostic methods.\n\n\nFindings\nFever and pneumonia initially improved but 64 (85%) patients developed recurrent fever after a mean of 8.9 (SD 3.1) days, 55 (73%) had watery diarrhoea after 7.5 (2.3) days, 60 (80%) had radiological worsening after 7.4 (2.2) days, and respiratory symptoms worsened in 34 (45%) after 8.6 (3.0) days.\n\n In 34 (45%) patients, improvement of initial pulmonary lesions was associated with appearance of new radiological lesions at other sites.\n\n Nine (12%) patients developed spontaneous pneumomediastinum and 15 (20%) developed acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) in week 3. Quantitative reverse-transcriptase (RT) PCR of nasopharyngeal aspirates in 14 patients (four with ARDS) showed peak viral load at day 10, and at day 15 a load lower than at admission.\n\n Age and chronic hepatitis B virus infection treated with lamivudine were independent significant risk factors for progression to ARDS (p=0.001).\n\n SARS-associated coronavirus in faeces was seen on RT-PCR in 65 (97%) of 67 patients at day 14. The mean time to seroconversion was 20 days.\n\n\nInterpretation\nThe consistent clinical progression, shifting radiological infiltrates, and an inverted V viral-load profile suggest that worsening in week 2 is unrelated to uncontrolled viral replication but may be related to immunopathological damage.\n\n\n","id":"PMC7112410","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Elsevier Ltd.","authors":[{"firstname":"JSM","surname":"Peiris","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"CM","surname":"Chu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"VCC","surname":"Cheng","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"KS","surname":"Chan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"IFN","surname":"Hung","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"LLM","surname":"Poon","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"KI","surname":"Law","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"BSF","surname":"Tang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"TYW","surname":"Hon","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"CS","surname":"Chan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"KH","surname":"Chan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"JSC","surname":"Ng","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"BJ","surname":"Zheng","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"WL","surname":"Ng","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"RWM","surname":"Lai","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Y","surname":"Guan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"KY","surname":"Yuen","email":"kyyuen@hkucc.hku.hk","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"NULL","surname":"NULL","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The Dynamic Relationship Between Clinical Symptomatology and Viral Shedding in Naturally Acquired Seasonal and Pandemic Influenza Virus Infections.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1186/s12879-019-3707-y","date":"2019-01-10","title":"Recognition of aerosol transmission of infectious agents: a commentary","abstract":"id='Par1'>Although short-range large-droplet transmission is possible for most respiratory infectious agents, deciding on whether the same agent is also airborne has a potentially huge impact on the types (and costs) of infection control interventions that are required.\n","id":"PMC6357359","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"BioMed Central","authors":[{"firstname":"Raymond","surname":"Tellier","email":"Raymond.Tellier@albertahealthservices.ca","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Yuguo","surname":"Li","email":"liyg@hku.hk","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Benjamin J.","surname":"Cowling","email":"bcowling@hku.hk","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Julian W.","surname":"Tang","email":"julian.tang@uhl-tr.nhs.uk","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1016/S0140-6736(03)13077-2","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Coronavirus as a possible cause of severe acute respiratory syndrome","abstract":"Background\nAn outbreak of severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) has been reported in Hong Kong.\n\n We investigated the viral cause and clinical presentation among 50 patients.\n\n\nMethods\nWe analysed case notes and microbiological findings for 50 patients with SARS, representing more than five separate epidemiologically linked transmission clusters.\n\n We defined the clinical presentation and risk factors associated with severe disease and investigated the causal agents by chest radiography and laboratory testing of nasopharyngeal aspirates and sera samples.\n\n We compared the laboratory findings with those submitted for microbiological investigation of other diseases from patients whose identity was masked.\n\n\nFindings\nPatients' age ranged from 23 to 74 years.\n\n Fever, chills, myalgia, and cough were the most frequent complaints.\n\n When compared with chest radiographic changes, respiratory symptoms and auscultatory findings were disproportionally mild.\n\n Patients who were household contacts of other infected people and had older age, lymphopenia, and liver dysfunction were associated with severe disease.\n\n A virus belonging to the family Coronaviridae was isolated from two patients.\n\n By use of serological and reverse-transcriptase PCR specific for this virus, 45 of 50 patients with SARS, but no controls, had evidence of infection with this virus.\n\n\nInterpretation\nA coronavirus was isolated from patients with SARS that might be the primary agent associated with this disease.\n\n Serological and molecular tests specific for the virus permitted a definitive laboratory diagnosis to be made and allowed further investigation to define whether other cofactors play a part in disease progression.\n\n\n","id":"PMC7112372","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Elsevier Ltd.","authors":[{"firstname":"JSM","surname":"Peiris","email":"malik@hkucc.hku.hk","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"ST","surname":"Lai","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"LLM","surname":"Poon","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Y","surname":"Guan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"LYC","surname":"Yam","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"W","surname":"Lim","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"J","surname":"Nicholls","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"WKS","surname":"Yee","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"WW","surname":"Yan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"MT","surname":"Cheung","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"VCC","surname":"Cheng","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"KH","surname":"Chan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"DNC","surname":"Tsang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"RWH","surname":"Yung","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"TK","surname":"Ng","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"KY","surname":"Yuen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"NULL","surname":"NULL","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1126/sciadv.aao4966","date":"2017-10-20","title":"Human intestinal tract serves as an alternative infection route for Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus","abstract":"Human intestinal tract as an alternative route to acquire MERS-CoV infection.\n","id":"PMC5687858","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"American Association for the Advancement of Science","authors":[{"firstname":"Jie","surname":"Zhou","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Cun","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Cun","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Guangyu","surname":"Zhao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Guangyu","surname":"Zhao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hin","surname":"Chu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Dong","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Helen Hoi-Ning","surname":"Yan","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Vincent Kwok-Man","surname":"Poon","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Lei","surname":"Wen","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Bosco Ho-Yin","surname":"Wong","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xiaoyu","surname":"Zhao","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Man Chun","surname":"Chiu","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Man Chun","surname":"Chiu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Dong","surname":"Yang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Dong","surname":"Yang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yixin","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Rex K. H.","surname":"Au-Yeung","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ivy Hau-Yee","surname":"Chan","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Ivy Hau-Yee","surname":"Chan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Shihui","surname":"Sun","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jasper Fuk-Woo","surname":"Chan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Kelvin Kai-Wang","surname":"To","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ziad A.","surname":"Memish","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ziad A.","surname":"Memish","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Victor M.","surname":"Corman","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Christian","surname":"Drosten","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Christian","surname":"Drosten","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ivan Fan-Ngai","surname":"Hung","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yusen","surname":"Zhou","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Suet Yi","surname":"Leung","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Kwok-Yung","surname":"Yuen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1093/cid/cit797","date":"2013-11-24","title":"Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome Beyond Amoy Gardens: Completing the Incomplete Legacy","abstract":"The temporal and spatial distributions of the 2003 severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) outbreak in Amoy Gardens of Hong Kong was reexamined using all confirmed cases.\n The outbreak actually extended to nearby residential complexes.\n Airborne spread was the most likely explanation, and the SARS coronavirus could have spread over a distance of 200 m.\n","id":"PMC7108083","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Oxford University Press","authors":[{"firstname":"Ignatius Tak-Sun","surname":"Yu","email":"iyu@cuhk.edu.hk","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Hong","surname":"Qiu","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Lap Ah","surname":"Tse","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Tze Wai","surname":"Wong","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Swift R. Sixty more people confirmed with coronavirus on cruise ship in Japan: media. Tokyo: Reuters. [Accessed 10 Feb 2020]. Available from: https://www.reuters.com/article/us-china-health-japan/sixty-more-people-confirmed-with-coronavirus-on-cruise-ship-in-japan-media-idUSKBN2040FG ","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.3201/eid2307.170310","date":"1970-01-01","title":"MERS-CoV Antibody Responses 1 Year after Symptom Onset, South Korea, 2015","abstract":"We investigated the kinetics of the Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus (MERS-CoV) neutralizing and spike protein antibody titers over the course of 1 year in 11 patients who were confirmed by reverse transcription PCR to have been infected during the outbreak in South Korea in 2015. Robust antibody responses were detected in all survivors who had severe disease; responses remained detectable, albeit with some waning, for &lt;1 year.\n The duration of viral RNA detection (but not viral load) in sputum significantly correlated with the antibody response magnitude.\n The MERS S1 ELISA antibody titers correlated well with the neutralizing antibody response.\n Antibody titers in 4 of 6 patients who had mild illness were undetectable even though most had evidence of pneumonia.\n This finding implies that MERS-CoV seroepidemiologic studies markedly underestimate the extent of mild and asymptomatic infection.\n Obtaining convalescent-phase plasma with high antibody titers to treat MERS will be challenging.\n","id":"PMC5512479","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Centers for Disease Control and Prevention","authors":[{"firstname":"Pyoeng Gyun","surname":"Choe","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"R.A.P.M.","surname":"Perera","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Wan Beom","surname":"Park","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Kyoung-Ho","surname":"Song","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ji Hwan","surname":"Bang","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Eu Suk","surname":"Kim","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hong Bin","surname":"Kim","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Long Wei Ronald","surname":"Ko","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Sang Won","surname":"Park","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Nam-Joong","surname":"Kim","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Eric H.Y.","surname":"Lau","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Leo L.M.","surname":"Poon","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Malik","surname":"Peiris","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Myoung-don","surname":"Oh","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.1016/j.vaccine.2006.08.011","date":"2006-08-10","title":"Antibodies against trimeric S glycoprotein protect hamsters against SARS-CoV challenge despite their capacity to mediate Fc?RII-dependent entry into B cells <italic>in vitro</italic>","abstract":"Vaccine-induced antibodies can prevent or, in the case of feline infectious peritonitis virus, aggravate infections by coronaviruses.\n We investigated whether a recombinant native full-length S-protein trimer (triSpike) of severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus (SARS-CoV) was able to elicit a neutralizing and protective immune response in animals and analyzed the capacity of anti-S antibodies to mediate antibody-dependent enhancement (ADE) of virus entry in vitro and enhancement of replication in vivo.\n SARS-CoV-specific serum and mucosal immunoglobulins were readily detected in immunized animals.\n Serum IgG blocked binding of the S-protein to the ACE2 receptor and neutralized SARS-CoV infection in vitro.\n Entry into human B cell lines occurred in a Fc?RII-dependent and ACE2-independent fashion indicating that ADE of virus entry is a novel cell entry mechanism of SARS-CoV.\n Vaccinated animals showed no signs of enhanced lung pathology or hepatitis and viral load was undetectable or greatly reduced in lungs following challenge with SARS-CoV.\n Altogether our results indicate that a recombinant trimeric S protein was able to elicit an efficacious protective immune response in vivo and warrant concern in the safety evaluation of a human vaccine against SARS-CoV.\n","id":"PMC7115629","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Elsevier Ltd.","authors":[{"firstname":"Yiu Wing","surname":"Kam","email":"Jasonkamyiuwing@yahoo.com.hk","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Franois","surname":"Kien","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Anjeanette","surname":"Roberts","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yan Chung","surname":"Cheung","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Elaine W.","surname":"Lamirande","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Leatrice","surname":"Vogel","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Shui Ling","surname":"Chu","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jane","surname":"Tse","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jeannette","surname":"Guarner","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Sherif R.","surname":"Zaki","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Kanta","surname":"Subbarao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Malik","surname":"Peiris","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Batrice","surname":"Nal","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ralf","surname":"Altmeyer","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1016/j.bbrc.2014.07.090","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Antibody-dependent SARS coronavirus infection is mediated by antibodies against spike proteins","abstract":"\n\n\n\nThe SARS coronavirus exhibits antibody-dependent enhancement (ADE).\n","id":"PMC7092860","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Elsevier Inc.","authors":[{"firstname":"Sheng-Fan","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Sung-Pin","surname":"Tseng","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Chia-Hung","surname":"Yen","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jyh-Yuan","surname":"Yang","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ching-Han","surname":"Tsao","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Chun-Wei","surname":"Shen","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Kuan-Hsuan","surname":"Chen","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Fu-Tong","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Wu-Tse","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Yi-Ming Arthur","surname":"Chen","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jason C.","surname":"Huang","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.3201/eid2605.190993","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Nonpharmaceutical Measures for Pandemic Influenza in Nonhealthcare SettingsInternational Travel-Related Measures","abstract":"International travelrelated nonpharmaceutical interventions (NPIs), which can include traveler screening, travel restrictions, and border closures, often are included in national influenza pandemic preparedness plans.\n We performed systematic reviews to identify evidence for their effectiveness.\n We found 15 studies in total.\n Some studies reported that NPIs could delay the introduction of influenza virus.\n However, no available evidence indicated that screening of inbound travelers would have a substantial effect on preventing spread of pandemic influenza, and no studies examining exit screening were found.\n Some studies reported that travel restrictions could delay the start of local transmission and slow international spread, and 1 study indicated that small Pacific islands were able to prevent importation of pandemic influenza during 191819 through complete border closure.\n This limited evidence base indicates that international travel-related NPIs would have limited effectiveness in controlling pandemic influenza and that these measures require considerable resources to implement.\n","id":"PMC7181936","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Centers for Disease Control and Prevention","authors":[{"firstname":"Sukhyun","surname":"Ryu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Huizhi","surname":"Gao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jessica Y.","surname":"Wong","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Eunice Y.C.","surname":"Shiu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jingyi","surname":"Xiao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Min Whui","surname":"Fong","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Benjamin J.","surname":"Cowling","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.3201/eid2605.190995","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Nonpharmaceutical Measures for Pandemic Influenza in Nonhealthcare SettingsSocial Distancing Measures","abstract":"Influenza virus infections are believed to spread mostly by close contact in the community.\n Social distancing measures are essential components of the public health response to influenza pandemics.\n The objective of these mitigation measures is to reduce transmission, thereby delaying the epidemic peak, reducing the size of the epidemic peak, and spreading cases over a longer time to relieve pressure on the healthcare system.\n We conducted systematic reviews of the evidence base for effectiveness of multiple mitigation measures: isolating ill persons, contact tracing, quarantining exposed persons, school closures, workplace measures/closures, and avoiding crowding.\n Evidence supporting the effectiveness of these measures was obtained largely from observational studies and simulation studies.\n Voluntary isolation at home might be a more feasible social distancing measure, and pandemic plans should consider how to facilitate this measure.\n More drastic social distancing measures might be reserved for severe pandemics.\n","id":"PMC7181908","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Centers for Disease Control and Prevention","authors":[{"firstname":"Min W.","surname":"Fong","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Huizhi","surname":"Gao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jessica Y.","surname":"Wong","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jingyi","surname":"Xiao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Eunice Y.C.","surname":"Shiu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Sukhyun","surname":"Ryu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Benjamin J.","surname":"Cowling","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1073/pnas.0611071104","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The effect of public health measures on the 1918 influenza pandemic in U.S. cities.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Laboratory readiness and response for novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV) in expert laboratories in 30 European Union/European Economic Area countries, January 2020.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Defining the epidemiology of COVID-19:studies needed","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"SARS-CoV-2 viral load in upper respiratory specimens of infected patients","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Summary of probable SARS cases with onset of illness from 1 November 2002 to 31 July 2003. Geneva: World Health Organization, 2004 ().","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Transmission dynamics and control of severe acute respiratory syndrome.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Clinical progression and viral load in a community outbreak of coronavirus-associated SARS pneumonia: a prospective study.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Influenza A virus shedding and infectivity in households.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Transmission of 2019-nCoV infection from an asymptomatic contact in Germany.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]}]}]}]}