{"SLR NAME":"Health-related challenges and coping strategies among women during COVID-19 and other pandemics: a systematic narrative review","SlR References":[{"doi":"10.1186/s12879-020-04987-8","date":"2020-03-24","title":"Solidarity, vulnerability and mistrust: how context, information and government affect the lives of women in times of Zika","abstract":"Background\nid='Par1'>The public health response to Zika outbreak has mostly focused on epidemiological surveillance, vector control, and individual level preventative measures.\n\n This qualitative study employs a social-ecological framework to examine how macro (historical, legislative, political, socio-economic factors), meso (sources of information, social support, social mobilization) and micro level factors (individual actions, behavioral changes) interacted to influence the response and behavior of women with respect to Zika in different contexts.\n\n\nMethods\nid='Par2'>A qualitative study was carried out.\n\n Women were recruited through the snowball sampling technique from various locations in Brazil, Puerto Rico, and the United States.\n\n They were of different nationalities and ethnicities.\n\n Data were collected through semi-structured interviews.\n\n The data transcripts were analyzed using thematic analysis.\n\n\nResults\nid='Par3'>Women in this study deemed the information provided as insufficient, which led them to actively reach out and access a variety of media sources.\n\n Social networks played a vital role in sharing information but also resulted in the spread of hoaxes or rumors.\n\n Participants in our research perceived socio-economic inequities but focused on how to remedy their microenvironments.\n\n They did not engage in major social activities.\n\n Lack of trust in governments placed women in vulnerable situations by preventing them to follow the guidance of health authorities.\n\n These impacts were also a result of the response tactics of health and government administrations in their failed attempts to ensure the well-being of their countries’ populations.\n\n\nConclusions\nid='Par4'>Our findings call for public health interventions that go beyond individual level behavioral change campaigns, to more comprehensively address the broader meso and macro level factors that influence women’ willingness and possibility to protect themselves.\n\n\n","id":"PMC7118940","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"BioMed Central","authors":[{"firstname":"Ana Rosa","surname":"Linde-Arias","email":"linde14@yahoo.com","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":" Maria","surname":"Roura","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":" Eduardo","surname":"Siqueira","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}],"Full Text":"Solidarity, vulnerability and mistrust: how context, information and government affect the lives of women in times of Zika\nBackground\nThe public health response to Zika outbreak has mostly focused on epidemiological surveillance, vector control, and individual level preventative measures. This qualitative study employs a social-ecological framework to examine how macro (historical, legislative, political, socio-economic factors), meso (sources of information, social support, social mobilization) and micro level factors (individual actions, behavioral changes) interacted to influence the response and behavior of women with respect to Zika in different contexts.\nMethods\nA qualitative study was carried out. Women were recruited through the snowball sampling technique from various locations in Brazil, Puerto Rico, and the United States. They were of different nationalities and ethnicities. Data were collected through semi-structured interviews. The data transcripts were analyzed using thematic analysis.\nResults\nWomen in this study deemed the information provided as insufficient, which led them to actively reach out and access a variety of media sources. Social networks played a vital role in sharing information but also resulted in the spread of hoaxes or rumors. Participants in our research perceived socio-economic inequities but focused on how to remedy their microenvironments. They did not engage in major social activities. Lack of trust in governments placed women in vulnerable situations by preventing them to follow the guidance of health authorities. These impacts were also a result of the response tactics of health and government administrations in their failed attempts to ensure the well-being of their countries' populations.\nConclusions\nOur findings call for public health interventions that go beyond individual level behavioral change campaigns, to more comprehensively address the broader meso and macro level factors that influence women' willingness and possibility to protect themselves.\nBackground\nIn November of 2015, the Brazilian Minister of Health declared the Zika epidemic a Public Health Emergency of National Concern due to the critical increase of microcephaly cases in the Northeast of the country. By February 1st, 2017, 76 countries have reported the presence of Zika. Of the 205,013 cumulative confirmed cases of Zika infection across the world, 130,840 were in Brazil, where differences by region and level of education in access to and use of health services persist. In fact, most microcephaly cases were concentrated in Northeastern Brazil, where health inequities are higher.\nAlthough news media outlets are no longer concerned with Zika, transmission continues in 87 countries and the U.S.. Puerto Rico has witnessed the most negative known outcomes of ZIKV infection in the U.S.. Concerns should be raised not only regarding the likelihood of the virus persisting in currently affected areas, but also the danger of its spreading to new areas throughout the globe.\nThe Aedes aegypti mosquito is the principal vector responsible for the widespread transmission of the virus. The ZIKV usually causes only a mild infection in humans, but it is also associated with severe cases of Guillain-Barre syndrome and death. For women who are pregnant it can produce severe neurological complications and adverse fetal outcomes. During pregnancy it can trigger congenital brain abnormalities. Sexual transmission of Zika from both male and female partners can occur and the virus can remain viable in semen for months. These unique adverse effects of Zika for maternal and perinatal health call for a broad spectrum of public health interventions.\nGovernments and multilateral agencies issued general advice and recommendations to protect women. Most of these messages where focused only on women. Many governments in Zika-affected areas strongly advised women to avoid becoming pregnant, whereas others stressed the importance of obtaining counseling and adequate access to family planning resources. However, populations do not have equal access to information on contraception and in a number of countries in the Americas, such as Brazil, the country most affected by the Zika outbreak, abortion is illegal. However, to date the changes in legislation in either country have yet to take shape. Preventive measures also included recommendations such as avoiding locations likely to contain infected mosquitos, covering oneself completely with clothing, and applying repellents, among other individual level preventative measures.\nThe public health response to the Zika outbreak mostly focused on epidemiological surveillance and vector control, together with individual level behavioral change campaigns However, women had to deal with the harrowing threat of mosquito infection and lived in communities exposed to upstream factors such as media, public policies, and political circumstances that determined how the epidemic influenced their daily lives [5,17, 18]. These factors subjected women to a degree of greater or lesser vulnerability. We described elsewhere how the lives of women were deeply affected by the emotional impact caused by the Zika epidemic. However, to have a comprehensive understanding of the impact on women of the ZIKV pandemic, studies have to identify and analyze how the upstream or macro-level factors interact with individual-level maternal and child health outcomes.\nDuring an infectious disease outbreak, particularly one that involves a new or previously unseen health threat, it is important to know how information influences and is perceived by the public. Years of research in communication and psychology show that public opinion change is much more challenging than opinion formation. To be most effective, public health campaigns must provide information that helps the public understand the causes of the disease in media formats that are accessible to various ethnic and socioeconomic segments of the population. Another important factor to consider is how the political contexts and history of a country influence the population reaction to an epidemic such as Zika. Many countries in the Americas where Zika was present had challenging political and economic circumstances. For instance, Brazil, which had the greatest number of Zika cases, is a country with high levels of economic inequality and structural deficiencies in sanitation and health care. Most women and children affected by Zika lived in arduous conditions. As the Zika epidemic evolved, Brazil went through one of the greatest economic and political crises in its history. Puerto Rico, also greatly affected by the epidemic, suffered from socioeconomic inequality and a strong economic crisis. Women in Puerto Rico have historically suffered the effects of forced sterilization. Such legacies are still felt in the current Zika epidemic, since &quot;effective action has been complicated by lingering suspicions related to historical activities.... Misinformation has clouded... the best ways to protect individuals and communities&quot;.\nWomen, on whom the responsibility and weight of public policies to control the Zika epidemic rested, must have a role in making informed reproductive decisions, protecting their health, and understanding the implementation of public health policies. The public health response to Zika should consider how women's organizations interact with the overall society, how they support each other, and whether networks between them do exist. The ability of local communities to mobilize and collaborate for action influences the success of strategies to control infectious disease. Community engagement could be an essential tool to minimize suffering, increase emotional and mental health and support among ZIKV patients and families with affected children.\nWhile broad socio-ecological models have been previously employed to account for the links between individual, community, and broader structural factors, and informed multi-sectorial responses to other epidemics, such as AIDS, they have been insufficiently employed to inform the response to the Zika epidemic. In addition, few studies have so far been conducted to address the impacts that the Zika epidemic had on women's lives at the transnational level, and the ways in which women dealt with Zika outbreaks have yet to be documented. The psychosocial implications of the Zika epidemic are essential for a complete understanding of its long-term repercussions. To our knowledge, few studies discussed the impacts on women who are indirectly affected and less vulnerable to Zika. Women indirectly affected by the epidemic suffered indirect effects from it without being directly exposed to the virus by personal contacts or infected by it.\nThis qualitative study aimed at furthering our understanding of the impacts of the Zika epidemic on women living in different contexts. Informed by social-ecological frameworks, we identify how macro (historical, political, legislative, socioeconomic factors), meso (sources of information, social support, and social mobilization) and micro level factors (individual actions, behavioural changes) interacted to influence the response and behavior of women in different contexts.\nMethods\nStudy design\nThis qualitative study consisted of semi-structured interviews of 34 women who lived in various locations in Brazil, Puerto Rico, and the United States. They were from different countries, socioeconomic strata, religious beliefs, ages, and cultures. They lived in Brazil, the U.S., and Puerto Rico, which have different legal systems, public health policies, and socio-cultural contexts. We chose Brazil and the U.S. as sites for the study because some of us live in Massachusetts and have social networks in Brazil, the continental U.S., and Puerto Rico.\nWe adopted the snowball sampling technique to recruit participants. Our connections increased ed. trust in the interviewer and facilitated disclosure of personal information. A combination of convenience, snowball, and maximum diversity sampling was thus employed to select out study participants. We recruited women of reproductive age (18-45 years old) living or migrating from countries (such as Brazil, Venezuela, or Colombia) or U.S. states where the ZIKV was detected. The interview guide was pilot-tested and iteratively adapted according to the feedback provided, allowing participants to suggest issues important to them. Details about the guide can be seen in the Additional file 1.\nWe conducted in-depth interviews with six key female informants, who worked with women directly affected by the ZIKV, to collect expert information on the impacts of the epidemic on such women. All our key informants had significant experience with populations affected by the ZIKV virus in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil; Puerto Rico or the U.S.\nData collection\nAll the interviews were conducted by the first author between October 2016 and December 2017 in English, Brazilian Portuguese, and Spanish. We conducted 8 in person interviews and 16 via Skype. The interviews lasted for 2 h on average. They were transcribed verbatim in English, Portuguese, or Spanish by team members who were native speakers of each language. Dr. ARLA, a native speaker of Spanish and fluent in Brazilian Portuguese and English, transcribed all interviews. All interviewers were kept anonymous. Dr. ARLA checked recordings for accuracy.\nData analysis\nSocio-ecological approach to the ZIKA epidemic\nOur data analysis was informed by socio-ecological frameworks and categorized interlinked factors at the macro, meso and micro levels. The macro level consisted of historical, political, legislative, and socioeconomic factors. The meso level included sources of information, social support, and social mobilization. The micro level included individual actions, and behavioural changes (protective behaviours). Recurrent topics were assigned codes and sorted into categories and subcategories within an initial coding frame that accounted for the diverse layers of health determinants underscored by socio-ecological theoretical frameworks (Fig. 1). Transcripts were systematically coded by Dr. ARLA using NVivo software  for data analysis. The process began by generating a few free nodes; then ideas or key words derived from the interviews were used to code the text into main themes and derived themes, usually called coding tree. Codes continued to be created, merged, and modified as data collection and analysis progressed, employing a combination of deductive and inductive approaches. Dr. MR and Dr. ES collaborated with Dr. ARLA to create the structure of the node tree. They coded several interviews independently and discussed the node tree during several meetings before consensus was achieved. We adopted pseudonyms for all participants to maintain anonymity. \nEthical considerations\nThe research protocol was approved by the Ethics Committee of the Institutional Review Board of the University of Massachusetts Boston under number 2016186. All participants were informed of the study aim and procedures and advised that participation was voluntary and confidential. Written consent was obtained from those who agreed to participate in the study.\nResults\nMicro-level factors\nParticipant characteristics\nSociodemographic Characteristics of the Women Interviewed\nCharacteristic	n	 	N	34	 	Age Range	 	 22-30	15 (44%)	 	 31-41	19 (46%)	 	Self-defined Ethnicity	 	 Brazilian	15 (44%)	 	 Hispanic	14 (41%)	 	 American	5 (15%)	 	Civil Status:	 	 Married	20 (58%)	 	 Single/ In a Relationship	14 (42%)	 	Maternity status / plans	 	 Recently born baby	8 (24%)	 	 Pregnant	10 (28%)	 	 Planning to get pregnant	8 (24%)	 	 No plan to get pregnant	8 (24%)	 	Residence	 	 Brazil	10 (29%)	 	 Washington DC	1 (3%)	 	 Massachusetts	6 (18%)	 	 Florida	7 (21%)	 	 Puerto Rico	10 (29%)	 	\nThirty-four women, with ages between 22 and 41 years, participated in our study. As seen in Table 1, 20 women were married while 14 had long-term partners. They resided in Florida, Massachusetts, Washington D.C., Puerto Rico, and several localities of Brazil. Participants self-reported their ethnicities as Brazilian, Hispanic, and Americans. We did not collect information about the socio-economic characteristics of participants. We inferred that information by the content of the interview and occupation of participants, who ranged from lower middle to upper middle class. All participants lived in urban areas. Eighteen interviewees had been pregnant recently or were pregnant at the time of the interview, while eight planned o get pregnant and eight did not want to become pregnant though lived in places where Zika transmission occurred. Two participants were misdiagnosed with Zika while pregnant, one had a husband diagnosed with the virus while pregnant, one was suspected of bearing a child with microcephaly, and six had a positive diagnosis of Zika though not pregnant. All interviewees had at least high school education; eight held Doctoral degrees, six held Master's degrees, six were in postgraduate studies, and ten had college degrees. Participant religious beliefs included Catholicism, Evangelism, Spiritism, Agnosticism, and Atheism. \nEmotional wellbeing\n&quot;So I had the feeling of not knowing what it was. I was protecting myself from a thing I do not know exactly what it is, what do I have to protect myself for? It was a very tense experience...&quot;\nReported effects of the Zika epidemic at the individual level included reduced physical and emotional well-being, feelings of isolation, sadness, and uneasiness. Interviewees had a strong feeling of uncertainty and mistrust concerning unknown factors surrounding the epidemic, which contributed to helplessness and distress. Fear, panic, concern, angst, and tension were commonly expressed. Maria, from Miami, summarized well her insecurity:\n&quot;We were not going to have any other kids after this and so this is really sad that it's happening here, at this time, when I don't really get to enjoy it.&quot;\nSometimes, the women voiced feelings of sadness, responsibility, shame, failure, and even guilt because of the pressure of having a healthy child. Pressure to avoid contagion led many women, facing the potential to be infected with Zika, to feel guilty and lonely. Ana C., for example, mentioned that she had feelings of failure due in part to government and media messages that blamed women who got bit by infected mosquitos as not careful enough to protect themselves. Many women expressed living in constant fear or anxiety of having to avoid or prevent mosquito bites from affecting their own health or that of their unborn child. As Katherina B. commented:\nBehavioral changes\n&quot;[I] bought a repellent and developed a routine that I put it on every time I showered. I used to put it on as if it were cream... like brushing your teeth and I would put it on every time I went outside. I tried to wear long clothes and not open shoes. I bought a product that I never used, to put on [my] clothes. [It] was very strong because, at the same time, these are chemicals to protect against Zika, but I'm also pregnant with a lot of chemicals all day long...&quot;\nThe daily routines of women were drastically changed by Zika. In order to protect themselves from the threat of the virus, women adopted behaviors that caused substantial changes in their social lives and personal wellbeing. They often sprayed themselves with chemical repellents throughout the day and wore long dresses and long sleeve shirts despite residing in tropical climates with warm temperatures. A significant adjustment to what should be considered normal routine behavior was described by Mariana S.:\n&quot;...It affected [the relationship] because [Zika] is a stress. You are worried, all the time if there is or isn't a mosquito [present]... a constant focus of tension, the quality of life falls a lot because that affects the relationship. I had places that I would not go to... because I thought there could be mosquitoes.&quot;\nThe daily lives of study participants, as reflected in their social relationships and interactions with their partners, family members and children, were greatly affected by Zika. Their intimate relationships with partners suffered both emotionally and sexually, and the fear that Zika could be contracted via sexual contact caused a strain in the relationship. Women often reported feeling isolated from their partners, children, parents, relatives and extended families. Lack of leisure, social, and outdoor activities, also contributed to social isolation. Reports of disruption in their social lives and daily routines were common. Participant Marilyn G. details her personal experience:\nAt the professional level, women placed their careers at risk by giving up growth opportunities such as attending meetings and job-related trips. Effects on the sexual and reproductive life included renouncing pregnancy or postponing their decision to motherhood, and in a few cases sexual abstinence as a form of protection.\nMeso-level factors\nSocial support\n&quot;...here we only talk about it. [In Brazil] everyone talks about it. It has a climate, a very strange atmosphere. You cannot look at a pregnant woman on the street and not think, not imagine...&quot;\nWomen with varying levels of contact with the ZIKV showed solidarity. Testimonies of empathy, concern, as well as support for one another, indicate continuous conversations about the effects of the virus. Throughout the Zika epidemic, participants came to see themselves in other women who could potentially be infected by the virus, as Interviewee 1, from Brazil, stated:\n&quot;...I saw people in solidarity with pregnant [women]... like [a young] girl at work.... Everyone worried about her. During high heat [temperatures] people worried... because she was all dressed.... They always asked her if she was okay. And she was pregnant with Zika before she knew she had it. She got Zika, became pregnant a few months later, and the baby was born normal.&quot; (Interviewee 2, Brazilian).\nCommunitarian feelings, particularly among pregnant women, flourished because a sense of commonality developed due to fear of the adverse effects caused by Zika. The risks of Zika created a climate of sincerity among women to discuss scientific uncertainties, potential methods of prevention, and to provide informal counseling based on personal experiences. The unfounded or inadequate support from the broader community was replaced by the unity among women that had initially limited relationships with one another. Respondents demonstrated empathy with each other:\n&quot;Everybody remained more worried about their own micro-environment, what I can do to protect myself, what I can do to protect my future baby so that it does not have microcephaly. Very few joint actions, from women to women to women.&quot;\nYet, many participants felt that these support networks were small, stemming from individual initiatives. This mutual solidarity happened to a degree in already established women networks, but there was lack of support from government agencies. In addition, the epidemic did not encourage women's political or social activism. Many women were concerned only with their own well-being or that of people close to them. They did not step outside of themselves to mobilize and change women's health, as Interviewee 3, from Brazil noted:\n&quot;No, I do not see it like that, not like a social stigma. It is not only Zika that affects the population or classes.... The truth is public health policy, the lack of sanitation and hygiene; there are some favelas that remain near the river. There, they have mosquitoes in those places. They are more exposed.&quot;\nThere were contrasting experiences regarding stigma depending on where they resided. Participants such as Isabel from South America indicated no such stigma when discussing Zika infections:\n&quot;At the airport I felt kind of intimidated by big signs asking: do you come from South America?&quot;\nConversely, women residing in the United States pointed out that stigma towards the ZIKV was, in fact, prevalent. In particular, if individuals were from Central or South America, there were questions about whether they could potentially be carriers of the virus. Interviewee 4 from Miami said:\n&quot;There are so many Latinos in Miami that they even brought Zika...&quot;\nAnd discrimination played a part in feelings of stigma. Some women indicated feeling targeted for their ethnic background, as Interviewee 5 from Miami described:\nIn sum, while there was equality among the women when discussing their experiences with the Zika epidemic, there were perceived inequities in its outcomes.\nSources of information\n&quot;As I use the internet a lot, I see more news on the internet. The newspapers, I read a lot of newspapers on the internet. I was educated enough with that, but television I do not see much. I am more into computers.&quot;\nFrom news programs on television to a variety of online platforms - wherever or however the information could be retrieved- participants consumed information from numerous media sources as the cases of Zika infections increased. Some, like Interviewee 6 from Puerto Rico, concentrated on accessing sources of information that they considered dependable or that fit into their daily life needs:\n&quot;It seemed to me that here in America, as they did not have as much experience, they did not have so much data... that the biggest information was from cases in Brazil that were like further from having implications to the U.S., etc...&quot;\nSocial media played an important role in not only providing access and sharing of resources among women's networks, but also information on how the virus spread. Much of the information available on such media outlets led many to misperceive it as concrete, well-defined and accurate facts. Individuals in different countries in the Americas acquired similar knowledge and perceptions on how to avoid Zika from similar media sources. However, in some locations the information available was limited, especially if mosquito-borne viruses were not usual, as in the United States. For example, Interviewee 7, from the U.S., affirmed:\n&quot;Today I don't see that anymore... for example in Rio. If you were to look at the TV campaigns or any of those things, it disappeared. It's only going to re-appear during the summer.&quot;\nThe Zika epidemic was recognized as a media boom by all women interviewed. According to them, the presence of ZIKV almost immediately took over the airwaves, as Valeria from Brazil summarized: &quot;It was like a boom that came out.&quot; Nonetheless, just as quickly as the virus became known, the media boom was suddenly over and a complete disappearance of Zika news in the media ensued. Interviewee 8, from Brazil, recalled:\n&quot;One also looks for what one needs, tranquility, but what I think is that there was not much advanced scientific information, studies that really gave information about this. It was more focused on prevention.&quot;\nMuch of the informational material disseminated during the outbreak of Zika focused primarily on prevention methods not based in scientific assessment of the epidemic; there was limited access to scientific information with a more comprehensive approach to the disease. In fact, many participants, such as Interviewee 9, from Brazil, viewed the evidence available to the public as incomplete:\nA number of women reported encountering alarmist materials as the epidemic expanded. Many rumors appeared, causing quite dangerous levels of chaos and mistrust. Participants recalled speculations that included rumors such as &quot;Zika is a government invention&quot; or &quot;Monsanto introduced the mosquito.&quot; Thus, women felt trapped in the rumor mill that Zika produced. Many were unsure about where to turn for reliable information on the virus or wondered if the sources available were trustworthy.\n&quot;...they are telling other women in those groups 'It's not a big deal' and I am like 'You are not a medical doctor.' Other groups that I am part of, they are very much concerned about it, and they try to help each... send articles to a few moms that were pregnant for them to be aware.&quot;\nAccess to social media also solidified the ability of individuals or groups to spread false rumors, detrimental and harmful to women's health. Personal opinions became concrete facts leading many not to comprehend fully the severity of Zika along with the true consequences of infection, as Interviewee 10, from the U.S., claims:\nAs a result of the rumors and unsubstantiated information, a sense of suspicion developed towards the news or updates that appeared in social media. Furthermore, there was much confusion as to whether the virus was truly detrimental and dangerous or if the media stories were gossip or &quot;fake news.&quot;\nMacro-level factors\nDistrust of governments\nThe perceived role of governments and public health organizations, and their past responses to citizens, is a major factor in explaining the negative attitudes of women toward the Zika epidemic. Participants argued that the public health system placed the responsibility of preventing any type of health complications from Zika onto women who had limited abilities to eradicate mosquitoes. Many women stated that these measures were invasive, while creating the perception that they were the sole determinant of whether or not they contracted Zika. Their perception was that public health officials focused on eradicating the vector (mosquito) and on preventing microcephaly, both of which placed the burden of prevention on women.\n&quot;[People are] skeptics, because in Puerto Rico the feds are always saying things to scare people and they have used Puerto Rico as guinea pigs for a lot of clinical trials... People do not trust any medical related issue from the government.&quot;\nIn the case of Puerto Rico, women reported an adversarial relationship between the government and the population, even in the face of an extreme health emergency. The political history of the island seemed to shape the attitude of women regarding the Zika epidemic, an example of which is seen in the words of Interviewee 11:\n&quot;Somehow, in truth, the government did not want Puerto Rican women to get pregnant. I do not know. It may or may not be [true]. In truth, I do not explain myself well, but I feel it [Zika] was an exaggeration.&quot;\nPast political tensions continue to mold the lack of trust of Puerto Ricans in government recommendations regarding public health. There was a distinct sense of vulnerability among Puerto Rican participants since they could not trust official government information, which was evident when Zika landed in the island. According to Interviewee 12:\n&quot;...it's like violence in Brazil. You read about it and you get afraid. Coming back is like you adapt to that. It's not too scary, you are not apprehensive all the time. It's like with my friend. We were worried but when you come here, you are back to your routine.&quot;\nSome Brazilian participants also viewed Zika with skepticism and felt a sense of resignation towards the government's responses to control the virus. They indicated that during past mosquito-borne epidemics the measures taken to combat the diseases were similar in nature, and the newly identified virus would not bring about any difference due to a supposed sense of normality within chaos. Interviewee 3 makes this view clear:\nInequities among women regarding Zika\n&quot;...a mosquito bites anyone the same.... It does not understand what is rich or poor&quot; (Interviewee14, Puerto Rico).\nDespite genuine gender solidarity for one another -given the possibility that malformations and developmental disabilities could occur - there remained ingrained elitism and social hierarchy in the views held by some women. Nevertheless, many participants clearly understood that the mosquito was a great equalizer. They realized that despite their relatively privileged socio-economic background, women from all backgrounds could be equally exposed, to a certain extent, to the virus. In that sense there was equality. But there was no equality in combating the epidemic. Essentially, the women understood that,\n&quot;I could use my network of colleagues and scientists to find out even more information like anything new that hadn't necessarily been published yet... I really feel like I was lucky that I could do that.&quot;\nSome participants were quite aware of their privilege. They felt some guilt for their higher socioeconomic positions, which allowed them more access to information and better understanding of Zika. Although the ZIKV was an &quot;equal opportunity virus,&quot; socio-economic factor dictated the lives of women during the epidemic. Interviewee 15 from Miami pointed out clear indicators of privilege, even when accessing informational materials on Zika:\nParticipants from financially stable and affluent situations easily identified barriers facing poorer women that could create further challenges in their attempts to protect themselves against Zika, but social solidarity that would push for changes in women's health rights or economic stability as a whole were not their major concerns.\nDiscussion\nIndividuals' responses to the epidemic depend on the sources of information received, and how these are perceived, which is in turn influenced by broader political, historical, legislative and socioeconomic contexts (Fig. 1). Few studies in the literature address the experiences of women indirectly affected and less vulnerable to the effects of the Zika epidemic. Our study demonstrate that the social effects of the epidemic affect more women than had been thought before and at deeper levels. They are coping with feelings of fear, helplessness, and uncertainty by taking drastic precautions to avoid infection that affect all areas of their lives. Coping strategies pose obstacles in professional life, lead to social isolation, including from family and partner, and threaten the emotional and physical well-being of women.\nThe first step in responding to any health epidemic involves having adequate information on the causes, how the disease may be contracted, and what steps should be taken to ensure one's safety and health. Dissemination of information plays an important role in epidemics, especially with those comparable to Zika, where all aspects of it were new and there was ignorance among citizens and health professionals alike. Legacy and social media respectively influence risk perceptions and protective behaviors during emerging health threats.\nDuring the Zika outbreak, women in our study deemed the information provided by public health officials as insufficient, which led them to actively reach out and access many media sources to counterbalance information gaps and shortcomings. Social networks played a vital role in sharing information but also resulted in the spread of hoaxes or rumors. It has been reported that Public Information Officers who were monitoring social media felt better prepared for Zika and were more satisfied with their crisis management since social media facilitates the spread of both accurate and false information. Understanding these media effects is essential to communicate public health information and engage different populations in the community. Above all, the need to access social media to gain knowledge about the debilitating virus clearly demonstrates the lack of satisfaction with then available official information about Zika.\nThere was a banalization of Zika by the average women and also health professionals, who were unclear about the health effects of the virus. When a disease is endemic in a particular population, reactions tend to be much more subdued, and it is harder to induce protective behavior. As an example, while international media attention has focused squarely on the risks posed by the Zika epidemic: prompting extreme reactions in some cases, such as Olympic athletes pulling out of the Rio games: evidence suggest that Brazilian residents may have viewed it differently, using the frame of reference of a familiar endemic disease, dengue, to evaluate the risk of the new and unknown Zika. Several studies of dengue in the developing world have underscored the difficulties of stimulating a strong public response or sustaining one after that epidemic subsided.\nIn the case of Puerto Rico, the history of government sanctioned medical trials and forced sterilization caused the population to become vulnerable, because it perceived current and future health epidemics as unpredictable. Such effects are so long-lasting that even in the current Zika epidemic, segments of the population not only doubted government intentions, but also refused to adopt any advice provided by the Department of Public Health. The voices of participants suggested that there are individuals and populations that resist the idea that government can truly be sympathetic to their well-being, whether the issue at hand is health, safety, or security. In fact, Zika brought to the forefront the interpretation that government abuses on a given population can have long-term harmful consequences.\nThe interaction between women and society as a whole is crucial to understand how stigma, classism and gendered inequalities happened during the Zika epidemic. We focused on how women perceived stigma, since during past epidemics, a negative social attitude had been reported. In our case, it became clear that the mosquito was perceived as an equalizer; the mosquito does not discriminate between rich and poor, biting everyone equally. Quite a different reaction was experienced in other epidemics, such as Ebola, where a definitive association of the disease with only &quot;poor people&quot; was patent, or in the case of HIV where stigma has persisted even after provision of effective treatment.\nGiven the social inequities in the U.S. and Brazil, one would assume that social stigma surrounding Zika would be prevalent; however, there were contrasting experiences among women depending on their geographic location. Brazilian women showed no such stigma about Zika infections. Conversely, U.S. women argued that stigma towards the ZIKV was, in fact, prevalent. This lack of stigma could be explained by the fact that Brazilian women are more accustomed and knowledgeable about these kind of mosquito transmitted diseases, such as dengue, chikungunya, which are rather common where they live.\nDiscrimination played a part in feelings of stigma whereby women felt targeted for their ethnic background. The U.S. government claimed that Zika was associated with immigrants from Central and South America, after Zika was recognized as a public health emergency in the U.S. The blame for the virus infection was again placed on individuals from a few nationalities as opposed to mosquitoes.\nThe Ebola infection also had similar impacts. Most of the individuals infected resided in poorer nations in the African continent. Women in these areas were the most affected as they had inferior access to healthcare. Information was either limited or the sources of knowledge were not culturally competent enough to be shared with the population. Although the virus could indeed be contracted via exchange of bodily fluids from person to person, individuals were charged with the responsibility to maintaining a clean bill of health.\nParticipants in our study understood that anybody could be bitten by the mosquito, but most were aware that they were privileged while others were in much more vulnerable situation. They clearly perceived the ethnic and socioeconomic inequities deeply rooted in their different contexts. However, they mainly focused on how to remedy their microenvironments.\nSocial movements to support and defend women's reproductive health rights because of the Zika epidemic might have happened, but many women did not realize that the connection they were fostering with each another might have evolved into a massive push for better access to birth control and better health care services. Surprisingly, women's activism in Brazil and other Latin American countries revolved around the creation of an underground movement for health care - women with children affected by Zika formed non-profit organizations and informal networks to defend their rights; abortion activists carried out many activities and studies in countries where abortion was illegal.\nSome women resisted but a movement for real change was invisible, maybe because advocacy efforts were top-down and thus unsuccessful at generating grassroots mobilization. The views of advocates might not be aligned with women's' views regarding abortion, for example. In a previous transnational study that provided insights into women's views and attitudes towards their reproductive rights in times of the Zika epidemic, we reported that reproductive decisions were intimately related to personal convictions and cultural beliefs, and their actions and thoughts were embedded in their sociocultural norms. Thus, it is important for the advocacy to be culturally sensitive, so it reaches a broad spectrum of the population.\nThe lack of social mobilization seriously addressing Zika as a global health matter is the biggest difference with other global epidemics. In the case of HIV there were huge mobilizations to get free treatment for all, tackle stigma and to investigate women controlled prevention measures such as microbicides. Also, since Zika has similar symptoms to dengue and chikungunya, some participants of our study reported feelings of resignation to the ongoing epidemics. Another factor that might have contributed to the lack of massive social response is the lack of support for women's reproductive health and rights that have historically been neglected aspects of Public Health .\nPolitical contexts also affected the social response, as reported by women in Puerto Rico and Brazil. In the end, the responses ended up becoming for the most part individual efforts to manage their own microenvironments. It is clear that the women more affected by the ZIKV infection, are the poor ones, traditionally neglected in their living conditions and health ; but our study shows that all women were affected in some way. We indicate that the social impacts of the epidemic affected more people, directly and indirectly, than had previously been thought and at deeper levels. Zika is a vast and far-reaching epidemic that altered the lives of women of all social positions.\nRegardless of the downgrade issued by the World Health Organization in November 2016, there are many other non-medical impacts of the ZIKV. Those impacts derived from the failed or insufficient response of health and government administrations to ensure population wellbeing by focusing almost exclusively on biomedical approaches. As the case of HIV has shown , a broader socio-ecological approach must be adopted for successful implementation of public health policies to control an epidemic.\nOur qualitative research is limited by the small number of participants, which does not allow for statistical generalization. However, it is conceptually generalizable in the sense that the themes that emerged are relevant to analyze and guide the response to the epidemic in different contexts. This is study analyzed the impact of the Zika epidemic on women who were indirectly and/or directly affected by it and considered the particularities of different contexts.\nThe strategies to canyontrol Zika in different communities should vary depending on their assets, vulnerabilities, and public health environments. On the one hand, the epidemic may stress public health systems and highlight weaker points that need comprehensive improvements. On the other, the socioeconomic, cultural, and political determinants of the epidemic may also have some bearing on the successes or setbacks of the emergency response to Zika.\nAn epidemic is a social phenomenon as much as a biological one. Thus, understanding people's behaviors and fears, their cultural norms and values, and their political and economic realities is essential. Having social scientists and academics working alongside governments and public health authorities would contribute to the introduction of crucial media messages, policies and guidelines to support the affected population. We hope that our work will lead to new guidelines and policies to ensure that the emergency response and the messages are delivered in the most effective way.\nConclusion\nThe Zika epidemic demonstrates that women's health still faces a variety of barriers at the global level. The results of this pilot study suggest the importance of considering social science approaches to understand risk and adopt public health measures to control epidemics. Financial, social, religious and cultural aspects are always involved in epidemics. The Zika epidemic was yet another lost opportunity to increase culturally sensitive family planning services, since the particular costs of the ZIKV for maternal and perinatal health demanded a broad spectrum of health interventions. Our findings call for public health interventions that go beyond individual level behavioral change campaigns, to more comprehensively address the broader meso and macro level factors that influence women's' willingness and agency to protect themselves.\nSupplementary information\nAbbreviations\nAIDS\nAcquired immunodeficiency syndrome\nWHO\nWorld Health Organization\nZIKV\nZika virus\nPublisher's Note\nSpringer Nature remains neutral with regard to jurisdictional claims in published maps and institutional affiliations.\nSupplementary information\nSupplementary information accompanies this paper at 10.1186/s12879-020-04987-8.\nAuthors' contributions\nAll Interviews were conducted by Dr. ARLA who also transcribed the interviews. Dr. ARLA double-checked all recording for accuracy. Dr. ARLA collaborated with Dr. ES and Dr. MR to create the structure of the node tree. Dr. ES and Dr. MR coded several interviews independently and discussed the node tree with Dr. ARLA in several meetings before consensus was achieved. Dr. ARLA was a major contributor in writing the manuscript. All authors read and approved the final manuscript.\nFunding\nThis research was supported by a Healey research grant from the University of Massachusetts Boston. The grant funded Dr. ARLA to perform data analysis and manuscript writing.\nAvailability of data and materials\nThe datasets generated and/or analyzed during the current study are not publicly available due to the protection of individual privacy of participants but may be made available from the corresponding author on reasonable request.\nEthics approval and consent to participate\nThe research protocol was approved by the Institutional Review Board of the University of Massachusetts Boston under number 2016186. All participants were informed of the study aim and procedure and advised that participation was voluntary and confidential. Written consent was obtained from those who agreed to participate in the study.\nConsent for publication\nNot Applicable.\nCompeting interests\nThe authors declare that they have no competing interests.\nReferences\nZika virus is a global public health emergency, declares WHO\nCarabali M, Austin N, King NB, Kaufman JS. The Zika epidemic and abortion in Latin America: a scoping review. Glob Health Res Policy. 2018;3(15). 10.1186/s41256-018-0069-8.\nWorld Health Organization. Zika Epidemiology Update, July 2019. Retrieved from https://www.who.int/emergencies/diseases/zika/zika-epidemiology-update-july-2019.pdf?ua=1\.\nPuerto Rico Department of Health. Virus del Zika -material educativo para la comunidad. 2017. Retrieved from http://www.salud.gov.pr/Sobre-tu-Salud/Pages/Educacion.aspx. Accessed 20 July 2019.\nTransmission of Zika virus in Aedes aegypti mosquitoes\nEvidence of sexual transmission of Zika virus\nZika virus associated with microcephaly\nSexual transmission of Zika virus: a literature review\nLate sexual transmission of Zika virus related to persistence in the semen\nInterim guidelines for prevention of sexual transmission of Zika virus:United States\nThe Zika contraception access network: a feasibility programme to increase access to contraception in Puerto Rico during the 2016-17 Zika virus outbreak\nCDC guidelines for pregnant women during the Zika virus outbreak\nWomen's lives in times of Zika: mosquito-controlled lives?\nSocial influence and the collective dynamics of opinion formation\nBrazil's health system woes worsen in economic crisis\nDiscourses of 'forced sterilization' in Puerto Rico\nZika virus 6 months later\nEthical, legal and societal considerations on Zika virus epidemics complications in scaling-up prevention and control strategies\nHIV testing and counseling among female sex workers: a systematic literature review\nScaling up stigma? The effects of antiretroviral roll-out on stigma and HIV testing. Early evidence from rural Tanzania\n&quot;I don't know if I have the courage&quot;: reproductive choices in times of Zika\nSocial ecological approaches to individuals and their contexts: twenty years of health education &amp; behavior health promotion interventions\nInequality, Zika epidemics, and the lack of reproductive rights in Latin America\nAbortion in cases of Zika virus congenital infection\nZika virus: knowledge, perceptions, and care practices of infected pregnant women\nCross-sectional psychological and demographic associations of Zika knowledge and conspiracy beliefs before and after local Zika transmission\nZika: information in the nick of time\nLegacy and social media respectively influence risk perceptions and protective behaviors during emerging health threats: a multi-wave analysis of communications on Zika virus cases\nPublic information officers' social media monitoring during the Zika virus crisis, a global health threat surrounded by public uncertainty\nLocal chatter or international buzz? Language differences on posts about Zika research on twitter and Facebook\nThe AIDS pandemic: complacency, injustice, and unfulfilled expectations\nZika: what we do and do not know based on the experiences of Brazil\nCommunity beliefs and practices about dengue in Puerto Rico\nEffectiveness of dengue control practices in household water containers in Northeast Thailand\nContraceptive sterilization in Puerto Rico\nHuman Guinea pigs? The history of the early oral contraceptive clinical trials\nPuerto Rico: the covert campaign to sterilize women\nSocial stigma and sexual epidemics: dangerous dynamics\nSpectre of Ebola haunts Zika response\nEbola in Africa: beyond epidemics, reproductive health in crisis\nEbola, gender and conspicuously invisible women in global health governance\n&quot;Maes de anjos&quot; mostra que ha alegria na microcefalia. 2017. http://curiosamente.diariodepernambuco.com.br/project/maes-de-anjos-mostra-que-ha-alegria-na-microcefalia/.\nZika and abortion\nContraception, safe abortion and the Zika response\nThe role of activists in access to HIV and tuberculosis treatment and prevention\nUse of and access to health services in Brazil, 2013 National Health Survey\nRodriguez M, Lord A, Sanabia CC, Silverio A, Chuang M, Dolan SM. Understanding Zika virus as an STI: findings from a qualitative study of pregnant women in the Bronx. Sex Transm Infect. 2019. 10.1136/sextrans-2019-054093.\nAddressing Ebola-related stigma: lessons learned from HIV/AIDS\n","References depth 1":[{"doi":"10.1136/bmj.i657","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Zika virus is a global public health emergency, declares WHO","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Carabali M, Austin N, King NB, Kaufman JS. The Zika epidemic and abortion in Latin America: a scoping review. Glob Health Res Policy. 2018;3(15). 10.1186/s41256-018-0069-8.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"World Health Organization. Zika Epidemiology Update, July 2019. Retrieved from https://www.who.int/emergencies/diseases/zika/zika-epidemiology-update-july-2019.pdf?ua=1\.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Puerto Rico Department of Health. Virus del Zika -material educativo para la comunidad. 2017. Retrieved from http://www.salud.gov.pr/Sobre-tu-Salud/Pages/Educacion.aspx. Accessed 20 July 2019.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"10.4269/ajtmh.16-0448","date":"2016-08-01","title":"Vertical Transmission of Zika Virus in <italic>Aedes aegypti</italic> Mosquitoes","abstract":"Previous experimental studies have demonstrated that a number of mosquito-borne flavivirus pathogens are vertically transmitted in their insect vectors, providing a mechanism for these arboviruses to persist during adverse climatic conditions or in the absence of a susceptible vertebrate host.\n In this study, designed to test whether Zika virus (ZIKV) could be vertically transmitted, female Aedes aegypti and Aedes albopictus were injected with ZIKV, and their F1 adult progeny were tested for ZIKV infection.\n Six of 69 Ae.\n aegypti pools, comprised of a total of 1,738 F1 adults, yielded ZIKV upon culture, giving a minimum filial infection rate of 1:290. In contrast, none of 803 F1\nAe.\n albopictus adults (32 pools) yielded ZIKV.\n The MFIR for Ae.\n aegypti was comparable to MFIRs reported for other flaviviruses in mosquitoes, including dengue, Japanese encephalitis, yellow fever, West Nile, and St.\n Louis encephalitis viruses.\n The results suggest that vertical transmission may provide a potential mechanism for the virus to survive during adverse conditions.\n","id":"PMC5094235","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"The American Society of Tropical Medicine and Hygiene","authors":[{"firstname":"Saravanan","surname":"Thangamani","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jing","surname":"Huang","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Charles E.","surname":"Hart","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Hilda","surname":"Guzman","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Robert B.","surname":"Tesh","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"10.1056/NEJMc1604449","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Evidence of sexual transmission of Zika virus","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Zika virus","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Probable non-vector-borne transmission of Zika virus, Colorado, USA","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Potential Sexual Transmission of Zika Virus","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Zika virus was transmitted by sexual contact in Texas, health officials report","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Evidence of Sexual Transmission of Zika Virus","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Late sexual transmission of Zika virus related to persistence in the semen","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Male-to-Female Sexual Transmission of Zika Virus:United States, January-April 2016","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Isolation of infective Zika virus from urine and saliva of patients in Brazil","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Frequent Zika Virus Sexual Transmission and Prolonged Viral RNA Shedding in an Immunodeficient Mouse Model","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Sexual Transmission &amp; Prevention","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]}]},{"doi":"10.1056/NEJMoa1600651","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Zika virus associated with microcephaly","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Serological evidence of infection with dengue and Zika viruses in horses on French Pacific Islands","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Brazil's birth-defects puzzle","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Differential transmission of Asian and African Zika virus lineages by Aedes aegypti from New Caledonia","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Guillain-Barresyndrome outbreak associated with Zika virus infection in French Polynesia: a case-control study","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Is some white matter damage in preterm neonates induced by a human Pestivirus?","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Inflammatory brain damage in preterm newborns dry numbers, wet lab, and causal inferences","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Absence of Pestivirus antigen in brains with white matter damage","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Epidemiology of Zika virus associated microcephaly in Brazil suggesting cofactor involvement","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Schmallenberg virus: research on viral circulation in Brazil","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Mononeuropatie e lesioni dei plessi","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Zika virus. I. Isolations and serological specificity","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Zika virus outbreak on Yap Island, Federated States of Micronesia","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Pre-Zika microcephaly in Brazil: closer to the elusive baseline and new questions raised","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Probable nonvector- borne transmission of Zika virus, Colorado, USA","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Bovine viral diarrhea virus type 1 current taxonomy according to palindromic nucleotide substitutions method","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Parsonage turner syndrome associated with anti-bovine viral diarrhea virus antibodies","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Genotypic characteristics of the 5'- untranslated region of a Pestivirus strain isolated from human leukocytes","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Serological and antigenical findings indicating Pestivirus in man","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Anti-bovine viral diarrhoea virus antibodies in adult Zambian patients infected with the human immunodeficiency virus","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Genotypes of Pestivirus RNA detected in live virus vaccines for human use","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Bovine virale diarrhoea","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Pesquisa mostra que a microcefalia jaera endemica no Brasil antes do surto de Zika","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Zika virus and microcephaly: why is this situation a PHEIC?","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The adaptive immune response in neonatal celebral white matter damage","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Microcephaly epidemic in Brazil: an earlier chapter","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Zika related to cattle farming?","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Zika virus transmission from French Polynesia to Brazil","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1101/062596","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Zika virus may not be alone: proteomics associates a bovine-like viral diarrhea virus to microcephaly","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Bois podem ser hospedeiros do zika virus, aponta Instituto Biologico","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Possible role of pestiviruses in microcephaly","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Pestivirus as a cause of white matter damage:down but not out","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Chi-Square Test Calculator","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Two chikungunya isolates from the outbreak of La Reunion (Indian Ocean) exhibit different patterns of infection in the mosquito, Aedes albopictus","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"How does Zika virus cause microcephaly? Genes Dev","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Pestivirus infection in identical twins discordant for schizophrenia","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]}]},{"doi":"10.1071/SH17046","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Sexual transmission of Zika virus: a literature review","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/S0140-6736(16)30775-9","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Late sexual transmission of Zika virus related to persistence in the semen","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"10.15585/mmwr.mm6505e1","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Interim guidelines for prevention of sexual transmission of Zika virus:United States","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/S2468-2667(18)30001-X","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The Zika Contraception Access Network: a feasibility programme to increase access to contraception in Puerto Rico during the 2016–17 Zika virus outbreak","abstract":"Background\nPrevention of unintended pregnancy is a primary strategy to reduce adverse pregnancy and birth outcomes related to Zika virus infection.\n\n The Zika Contraception Access Network (Z-CAN) aimed to build a network of health-care providers offering client-centred contraceptive counselling and the full range of reversible contraception at no cost to women in Puerto Rico who chose to prevent pregnancy during the 2016–17 Zika virus outbreak.\n\n Here, we describe the Z-CAN programme design, implementation activities, and baseline characteristics of the first 21?124 participants.\n\n\nMethods\nZ-CAN was developed by establishing partnerships between federal agencies, territorial health agencies, private corporations, and domestic philanthropic and non-profit organisations in the continental USA and Puerto Rico.\n\n Private donations to the National Foundation for the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDCF) secured a supply of reversible contraceptive methods (including long-acting reversible contraception), made available to non-sterilised women of reproductive age at no cost through provider reimbursements and infrastructure supported by the CDCF.\n\n To build capacity in contraception service provision, doctors and clinic staff from all public health regions and nearly all municipalities in Puerto Rico were recruited into the programme.\n\n All providers completed 1 day of comprehensive training in contraception knowledge, counselling, and initiation and management, including the insertion and removal of long-acting reversible contraceptives (LARCs).\n\n Z-CAN was announced through health-care providers, word of mouth, and a health education campaign.\n\n Descriptive characteristics of programme providers and participants were recorded, and we estimated the factors associated with choosing and receiving a LARC method.\n\n As part of a Z-CAN programme monitoring plan, participants were invited to complete a patient satisfaction survey about whether they had obtained free, same-day access to their chosen contraceptive method after receiving comprehensive counselling, their perception of the quality of care they had received, and their satisfaction with their chosen method and services.\n\n\nFindings\nBetween May 4, 2016, and Aug 15, 2017, 153 providers in the Z-CAN programme provided services to 21?124 women.\n\n 20?110 (95%) women received same-day provision of a reversible contraceptive method.\n\n Whereas only 767 (4%) women had used a LARC method before Z-CAN, 14?259 (68%) chose and received a LARC method at their initial visit.\n\n Of the women who received a LARC method, 10?808 (76%) women had used no method or a least effective method of contraception (ie, condoms or withdrawal) before their Z-CAN visit.\n\n Of the 3489 women who participated in a patient satisfaction survey, 3068 (93%) of 3294 women were very satisfied with the services received, and 3216 (93%) of 3478 women reported receiving the method that they were most interested in after receiving counselling.\n\n 2382 (78%) of 3040 women rated their care as excellent or very good.\n\n\nInterpretation\nZ-CAN was designed as a short-term response for rapid implementation of reversible contraceptive services in a complex emergency setting in Puerto Rico and has served more than 21?000 women.\n\n This model could be replicated or adapted as part of future emergency preparedness and response efforts.\n\n\nFunding\nNational Foundation for the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.\n\n\n","id":"PMC5846878","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Elsevier, Ltd","authors":[{"firstname":"Eva","surname":"Lathrop","email":"elathro@emory.edu","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Lisa","surname":"Romero","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Stacey","surname":"Hurst","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Nabal","surname":"Bracero","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Lauren B","surname":"Zapata","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Meghan T","surname":"Frey","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Maria I","surname":"Rivera","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Erin N","surname":"Berry-Bibee","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Margaret A","surname":"Honein","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Judith","surname":"Monroe","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Denise J","surname":"Jamieson","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}],"References depth 2":[{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Contraceptive use among nonpregnant and postpartum women at risk for unintended pregnancy, and female high school students, in the context of Zika preparedness:United States, 2011-2013 and 2015","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Zika virus:10 public health achievements in 2016 and future priorities","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Incidence of Zika virus disease by age and sex:Puerto Rico, November 1, 2015-October 20, 2016","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Estimating contraceptive needs and increasing access to contraception in response to the Zika virus disease outbreak:Puerto Rico, 2016","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Vital signs: update on Zika virus-associated birth defects and evaluation of all US infants with congenital Zika virus exposure:US Zika Pregnancy Registry, 2016","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The contraceptive CHOICE project round up: what we did and what we learned","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Preventing unintended pregnancies by providing no-cost contraception","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Did increasing use of highly effective contraception contribute to declining abortions in Iowa?","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Game change in Colorado: widespread use of long-acting reversible contraceptives and rapid decline in births among young, low-income women","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Contraceptive method use in the United States: trends and characteristics between 2008, 2012 and 2014","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Sterilization regret among Puerto Rican women","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"People &amp; Events: The Puerto Rico Pill Trials","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Reductions in pregnancy rates in the USA with long-acting reversible contraception: a cluster randomised trial","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"U.S. medical eligibility criteria for contraceptive use, 2016","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"U.S. selected practice recommendations for contraceptive use, 2016","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Research electronic data capture (REDCap):a metadata-driven methodology and workflow process for providing translational research informatics support","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Public health ethics","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Association of the quality of interpersonal care during family planning counseling with contraceptive use","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Contraceptive availability during an emergency response in the United States","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Inter-agency field manual on reproductive health in humanitarian settings","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Understanding health care disparities in the US territories","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Health care provider attitudes and practices related to intrauterine devices for nulliparous women","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The Contraceptive CHOICE Project: reducing barriers to long-acting reversible contraception","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Cost-effectiveness of increasing access to contraception during the Zika virus outbreak, Puerto Rico, 2016","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Provider bias in long-acting reversible contraception (LARC) promotion and removal: perceptions of young adult women","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Realizing reproductive health equity needs more than long-acting reversible contraception (LARC)","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"CDC's world map of areas with risk of Zika","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]}]},{"doi":"10.1016/S0140-6736(16)00383-4","date":"1970-01-01","title":"CDC guidelines for pregnant women during the Zika virus outbreak","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"10.1590/0102-311x00178917","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Women's lives in times of Zika: mosquito-controlled lives?","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"10.1371/journal.pone.0078433","date":"2013-09-10","title":"Social Influence and the Collective Dynamics of Opinion Formation","abstract":"Social influence is the process by which individuals adapt their opinion, revise their beliefs, or change their behavior as a result of social interactions with other people.\n In our strongly interconnected society, social influence plays a prominent role in many self-organized phenomena such as herding in cultural markets, the spread of ideas and innovations, and the amplification of fears during epidemics.\n Yet, the mechanisms of opinion formation remain poorly understood, and existing physics-based models lack systematic empirical validation.\n Here, we report two controlled experiments showing how participants answering factual questions revise their initial judgments after being exposed to the opinion and confidence level of others.\n Based on the observation of 59 experimental subjects exposed to peer-opinion for 15 different items, we draw an influence map that describes the strength of peer influence during interactions.\n A simple process model derived from our observations demonstrates how opinions in a group of interacting people can converge or split over repeated interactions.\n In particular, we identify two major attractors of opinion: (i) the expert effect, induced by the presence of a highly confident individual in the group, and (ii) the majority effect, caused by the presence of a critical mass of laypeople sharing similar opinions.\n Additional simulations reveal the existence of a tipping point at which one attractor will dominate over the other, driving collective opinion in a given direction.\n These findings have implications for understanding the mechanisms of public opinion formation and managing conflicting situations in which self-confident and better informed minorities challenge the views of a large uninformed majority.\n","id":"PMC3818331","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Public Library of Science","authors":[{"firstname":"Mehdi","surname":"Moussaïd","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Juliane E.","surname":"Kämmer","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Pantelis P.","surname":"Analytis","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Hansjörg","surname":"Neth","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Attila","surname":"Szolnoki","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Attila","surname":"Szolnoki","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}],"References depth 2":[{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Uninformed individuals promote democratic consensus in animal groups","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Camazine S, Deneubourg J-L, Franks N, Sneyd J, Theraulaz G, .. (2001) Self-organization in biological systems. Princeton University Press.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"A Theory of fads, fashion, custom, and cultural change as informational cascades","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Collective information processing and pattern formation in swarms, flocks, and crowds","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Novelty and collective attention","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Receiving other people's advice: Influence and benefit","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Gigerenzer G, Todd P (1999) Simple heuristics that make us smart. Oxford University Press.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Individualization as driving force of clustering phenomena in humans","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Schelling T (1978) Micromotives and macrobehavior. W. W. Norton.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Group polarization: A critical review and meta-analysis","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Towards a theory of collective phenomena: Consensus and attitude changes in groups","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Discussion effects on racial attitudes","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Modelling the influence of human behaviour on the spread of infectious diseases: a review","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The spread of awareness and its impact on epidemic outbreaks","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Experimental study of inequality and unpredictability in an artificial cultural market","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The social amplification of risk: a conceptual framework","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Perception of risk","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The psychology of social impact","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Statistical physics of social dynamics","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Continuous opinion dynamics under bounded confidence: A survey","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Modelling collective opinion formation by means of active Brownian particles","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Opinion evolution in closed community","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Rational group decision making: A random field Ising model at T  =  0","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Liggett T (1985) Interacting particle systems. New York: Springer New York.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Mixing beliefs among interacting agents","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Opinion dynamics and bounded confidence models, analysis and simulation","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Minority opinion spreading in random geometry","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Modelling opinion formation with physics tools: Call for closer link with reality","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"How social influence can undermine the wisdom of crowd effect","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Strategies for revising judgment: How (and how well) people use others' opinions","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Situating social influence processes: Dynamic, multidirectional flows of influence within social networks","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The role of inflexible minorities in the breaking of democratic opinion dynamics","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The building up of individual inflexibility in opinion dynamics","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Probabilistic mental models: a Brunswikian theory of confidence","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Is the true &quot;wisdom of the crowd&quot; to copy successful individuals?","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Reconciling long-term cultural diversity and short-term collective social behavior","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Opinions and social pressure","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Effective leadership and decision-making in animal groups on the move","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Leadership, consensus decision making and collective behaviour in humans","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Social consensus through the influence of committed minorities","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Baron J (2000) Thinking and deciding. Cambridge University Press.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Confirmation bias: A ubiquitous phenomenon in many guises","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"When are two heads better than one and why?","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Tapping into the wisdom of the crowd:with confidence","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Wu F, Huberman B (2004) Social structure and opinion formation. Computational Economics 0407002.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Computational social science","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]}]},{"doi":"10.1016/S0140-6736(16)30249-5","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Brazil's health system woes worsen in economic crisis","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Discourses of 'forced sterilization' in Puerto Rico","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"10.1001/jama.2016.11941","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Zika virus 6 months later","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"10.1186/s13010-017-0046-8","date":"2017-08-15","title":"Ethical, legal and societal considerations on Zika virus epidemics complications in scaling-up prevention and control strategies","abstract":"id='Par1'>Much of the fear and uncertainty around Zika epidemics stem from potential association between Zika virus (ZIKV) complications on infected pregnant women and risk of their babies being born with microcephaly and other neurological abnormalities.\n However, much remains unknown about its mode of transmission, diagnosis and long-term pathogenesis.\n Worries of these unknowns necessitate the need for effective and efficient psychosocial programs and medical-legal strategies to alleviate and mitigate ZIKV related burdens.\n In this light, local and global efforts in maintaining fundamental health principles of moral, medical and legal decision-making policies, and interventions to preserve and promote individual and collectiveHuman Rights, autonomy, protection of the most vulnerable, equity, dignity, integrity and beneficence that should not be confused and relegated by compassionate humanitarian assistance and support.\n This paper explores the potential medical and ethical-legal implications of ZIKV epidemics emergency response packages and strategies alongside optimizing reproductive and mental health policies, programs and best practice measures.\n Further long-term cross-borders operational research is required in elucidating Zika-related population-based epidemiology, ethical-medical and societal implications in guiding evidence-based local and global ZIKV maternal-child health complications related approaches and interventions.\n Core programs and interventions including future Zika safe and effective vaccines for global Zika immunization program in most vulnerable and affected countries and worldwide should be prioritized.\n","id":"PMC5574124","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"BioMed Central","authors":[{"firstname":"Ernest","surname":"Tambo","email":"tambo0711@gmail.com","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ghislaine","surname":"Madjou","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Christopher","surname":"Khayeka-Wandabwa","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Oluwasogo A.","surname":"Olalubi","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Chryseis F.","surname":"Chengho","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Emad I.M.","surname":"Khater","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}],"References depth 2":[{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"World Health Organization. Zika situation report. WHO int Feb. 2016. p. 12. http://www.who.int/emergencies/zika-virus/situation-report/26-february-2016/en/. Accessed 12 Feb 2017.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"World Health Organization. Zika Situation Report:Neurological Syndrome and Congenital Anomalies, 5 February 2016. In; 2016. http://www.who.int/emergencies/zika-virus/situation-report/5-february-2016/en/. Accessed 5 Feb 2017.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Galindo-Fraga A, Ochoa-Hein E, Sifuentes-Osornio J, Ruiz-Palacios G. Zika virus: A new epidemic on our doorstep. Revista de investigacion clinica. 2015:329-32.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/S0140-6736(16)00257-9","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Concern over Zika virus grips the world","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1128/genomeA.00032-16","date":"2016-01-14","title":"First Complete Genome Sequence of Zika Virus (<italic>Flaviviridae</italic>, <italic>Flavivirus</italic>) from an Autochthonous Transmission in Brazil","abstract":"We report here the genome sequence of Zika virus, strain ZikaSPH2015, containing all structural and nonstructural proteins flanked by the 5? and 3? untranslated region.\n It was isolated in São Paulo state, Brazil, in 2015, from a patient who received a blood transfusion from an asymptomatic donor at the time of donation.\n","id":"PMC4777745","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"American Society for Microbiology","authors":[{"firstname":"Mariana Sequetin","surname":"Cunha","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Danillo Lucas Alves","surname":"Esposito","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Iray Maria","surname":"Rocco","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Adriana Yurika","surname":"Maeda","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Fernanda Gisele Silva","surname":"Vasami","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Juliana Silva","surname":"Nogueira","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Renato Pereira","surname":"de Souza","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Akemi","surname":"Suzuki","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Marcelo","surname":"Addas-Carvalho","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Maria de Lourdes","surname":"Barjas-Castro","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Mariângela Ribeiro","surname":"Resende","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Raquel Silveira Bello","surname":"Stucchi","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ilka de Fátima Santana Ferreira","surname":"Boin","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Gizelda","surname":"Katz","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Rodrigo Nogueira","surname":"Angerami","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Benedito Antonio Lopes","surname":"da Fonseca","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.1038/530142a","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Proving Zika link to birth defects poses huge challenge","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/j.jiph.2016.02.005","date":"2016-02-20","title":"Deciphering emerging Zika and dengue viral epidemics: Implications for global maternal–child health burden","abstract":"Since its discovery in 1947 in Uganda and control and eradication efforts have aimed at its vectors (Aedes mosquitoes) in Latin America in the 1950s, an absolute neglect of Zika programs and interventions has been documented in Aedes endemic and epidemic-prone countries.\n The current unprecedented Zika viral epidemics and rapid spread in the Western hemisphere pose a substantial global threat, with associated anxiety and consequences.\n The lack of safe and effective drugs and vaccines against Zika or dengue epidemics further buttresses the realization from the West Africa Ebola outbreak that most emerging disease-prone countries are still poorly prepared for an emergency response.\n This paper examines knowledge gaps in both emerging and neglected arthropod-borne flavivirus infectious diseases associated with poverty and their implications for fostering local, national and regional emerging disease preparedness, effective and robust surveillance–response systems, sustained control and eventual elimination.\n Strengthening the regional and Global Health Flavivirus Surveillance-Response Network (GHFV-SRN) with other models of socio-economic, climatic, environmental and ecological mitigation and adaptation strategies will be necessary to improve evidence-based national and global maternal–child health agenda and action plans.\n","id":"PMC7102705","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"King Saud Bin Abdulaziz University for Health Sciences. Production and hosting by Elsevier Limited.","authors":[{"firstname":"Ernest","surname":"Tambo","email":"tambo0711@gmail.com","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Pascal D.","surname":"Chuisseu","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jeanne Y.","surname":"Ngogang","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Emad I.M.","surname":"Khater","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1136/bmj.i1322","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Zika virus may be linked to several birth defects, expert warns","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Brasil P, Pereira J, Jose P, Raja Gabaglia C, Damasceno L, Wakimoto M, Ribeiro Nogueira RM. Carvalho de Sequeira P, Machado Siqueira A, Abreu de Carvalho LM, Cotrim da Cunha D: Zika virus infection in pregnant women in Rio de Janeiro:preliminary report. New England J Med. 2016;","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Pyke AT, Daly MT, Cameron JN, Moore PR, Taylor CT, Hewitson GR, Humphreys JL, Gair R. Imported Zika virus infection from the Cook Islands into Australia, 2014. PLoS Curr. 2014. p. 6.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1136/bmj.i306","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Zika virus outbreak prompts US to issue travel alert to pregnant women","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.4269/ajtmh.15-0022","date":"2015-04-06","title":"Detection of Zika Virus Infection in Thailand, 2012–2014","abstract":"Zika virus (ZIKV) is an emerging mosquito-borne pathogen with reported cases in Africa, Asia, and large outbreaks in the Pacific.\n No autochthonous ZIKV infections have been confirmed in Thailand.\n However, there have been several cases reported in travelers returning from Thailand.\n Here we report seven cases of acute ZIKV infection in Thai residents across the country confirmed by molecular or serological testing including sequence data.\n These endemic cases, combined with previous reports in travelers, provide evidence that ZIKV is widespread throughout Thailand.\n","id":"PMC4530765","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"The American Society of Tropical Medicine and Hygiene","authors":[{"firstname":"Rome","surname":"Buathong","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Laura","surname":"Hermann","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Butsaya","surname":"Thaisomboonsuk","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Wiriya","surname":"Rutvisuttinunt","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Chonticha","surname":"Klungthong","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Piyawan","surname":"Chinnawirotpisan","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Wudtichai","surname":"Manasatienkij","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ananda","surname":"Nisalak","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Stefan","surname":"Fernandez","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"In-Kyu","surname":"Yoon","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Passakorn","surname":"Akrasewi","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Tanarak","surname":"Plipat","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"World Health Organization. Zika strategic response framework and joint operations plan, January-June 2016. 2016. http://apps.who.int/iris/bitstream/10665/204420/1/ZikaResponseFramework_JanJun16_eng.pdf. Acccessed 7 July 2017.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/S0140-6736(16)00651-6","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Association between Zika virus and microcephaly in French Polynesia, 2013-15: a retrospective study","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1371/journal.pntd.0004530","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Zika Virus: Medical Countermeasure Development Challenges","abstract":"Introduction\nReports of high rates of primary microcephaly and Guillain–Barré syndrome associated with Zika virus infection in French Polynesia and Brazil have raised concerns that the virus circulating in these regions is a rapidly developing neuropathic, teratogenic, emerging infectious public health threat.\n\n There are no licensed medical countermeasures (vaccines, therapies or preventive drugs) available for Zika virus infection and disease.\n\n The Pan American Health Organization (PAHO) predicts that Zika virus will continue to spread and eventually reach all countries and territories in the Americas with endemic Aedes mosquitoes.\n\n This paper reviews the status of the Zika virus outbreak, including medical countermeasure options, with a focus on how the epidemiology, insect vectors, neuropathology, virology and immunology inform options and strategies available for medical countermeasure development and deployment.\n\n\nMethods\nMultiple information sources were employed to support the review.\n\n These included publically available literature, patents, official communications, English and Lusophone lay press.\n\n Online surveys were distributed to physicians in the US, Mexico and Argentina and responses analyzed.\n\n Computational epitope analysis as well as infectious disease outbreak modeling and forecasting were implemented.\n\n Field observations in Brazil were compiled and interviews conducted with public health officials.\n\n\n","id":"PMC4774925","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Public Library of Science","authors":[{"firstname":"Robert W.","surname":"Malone","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jane","surname":"Homan","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Michael V.","surname":"Callahan","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jill","surname":"Glasspool-Malone","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Lambodhar","surname":"Damodaran","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Adriano De Bernardi","surname":"Schneider","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Rebecca","surname":"Zimler","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"James","surname":"Talton","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ronald R.","surname":"Cobb","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ivan","surname":"Ruzic","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Julie","surname":"Smith-Gagen","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Daniel","surname":"Janies","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"James","surname":"Wilson","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"NULL","surname":"NULL","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Rebekah Crockett","surname":"Kading","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Rebekah Crockett","surname":"Kading","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1007/s40475-016-0076-0","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Threat of Zika virus to the 2016 Rio de Janeiro Olympic and Paralympic games","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.2105/AJPH.2016.303112","date":"1970-01-01","title":"History, epidemiology, and clinical manifestations of Zika: a systematic review","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Chikungunya Virus Home. Symptoms, Diagnosis, &amp; Treatment. https://www.cdc.gov/chikungunya/symptoms/index.html. Accessed 17 July 2017.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/j.jaut.2016.02.006","date":"2016-02-16","title":"The Zika outbreak of the 21st century","abstract":"The Zika virus outbreak has captivated the attention of the global audience and information has spread rapidly and wildly through the internet and other media channels.\n This virus was first identified in 1947, when it was isolated from a sentinel rhesus monkey placed by British scientists working at the Yellow Fever Research Laboratory located in the Zika forest area of Uganda, hence its name, and is transmitted primarily by the mosquito vector, Aedes aegypti.\n The fact that the rhesus macaque is an Asian species being placed in an African forest brings to mind the possibility of rapid adaptation of the virus from an African to Asian species, an issue that has not been considered.\n Whether such adaptation has played any role in acquiring pathogenicity due to cross species transmission remains to be identified.\n The first human infection was described in Nigeria in 1954, with only scattered reports of about a dozen human infections identified over a 50-year period.\n It was not until 2007 that Zika virus raised its ugly head with infections noted in three-quarters of the population on the tiny island of Yap located between the Philippines and Papua New Guinea in the western Pacific Ocean, followed by a major outbreak in French Polynesia in 2013. The virus remained confined to a narrow equatorial band in Africa and Asia until 2014 when it began to spread eastward, first toward Oceania and then to South America.\n Since then, millions of infected individuals have been identified in Brazil, Colombia, Venezuela, including 25 additional countries in the Americas.\n While the symptoms associated with Zika virus infection are generally mild, consisting of fever, maculopapular rash, arthralgia and conjunctivitis, there have been reports of more severe reactions that are associated with neurological complications.\n In pregnant women, fetal neurological complications include brain damage and microcephaly, while in adults there have been several cases of virus-associated Guillain-Barre syndrome.\n The virus was until recently believed to only be transmitted via mosquitoes.\n But when the Zika virus was isolated from the semen specimens from a patient in Texas, this provided the basis for the recent report of possible sexual transmission of the Zika virus.\n Due to the neurological complications, various vectors for infection as well as the rapid spread throughout the globe, it has prompted the World Health Organization to issue a global health emergency.\n Various governmental organizations have recommended that pregnant women do not travel to countries where the virus is epidemic, and within the countries affected by the virus, recommendations were provided for women of childbearing age to delay pregnancy.\n The overall public health impact of these above findings highlights the need for a rapid but specific diagnostic test for blood banks worldwide to identify those infected and for the counseling of women who are pregnant or contemplating pregnancy.\n As of this date, there are neither commercially licensed diagnostic tests nor a vaccine.\n Because cross-reactivity of the Zika virus with dengue and Chikungunya virus is common, it may pose difficulty in being able to quickly develop such tests and vaccines.\n So far the most effective public health measures include controlling the mosquito populations via insecticides and preventing humans from direct exposure to mosquitoes.\n","id":"PMC7127657","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Elsevier Ltd.","authors":[{"firstname":"Christopher","surname":"Chang","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Kristina","surname":"Ortiz","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Aftab","surname":"Ansari","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"M. Eric","surname":"Gershwin","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.1016/S0140-6736(16)00564-X","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Zika virus and Guillain-Barre syndrome: another viral cause to add to the list","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1007/s10875-010-9407-4","date":"1970-01-01","title":"IVIG Treatment and Prognosis in Guillain–Barré Syndrome","abstract":"Introduction\nGuillain–Barré syndrome (GBS) is an acute, immune-mediated polyneuropathy that often leads to severe weakness.\n\n Intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIG) is a proven effective treatment for GBS (class 1 evidence).\n\n However, about 25% of patients need artificial ventilation and 20% are still unable to walk unaided after 6 months.\n\n Important clinical factors associated with poor outcome are age, presence of preceding diarrhea and the severity of disability in the early course of disease.\n\n These clinical factors were combined in a clinical prognostic scoring scale, the Erasmus GBS Outcome Scale (EGOS).\n\n\nMaterials and Methods\nGBS patients being unable to walk unaided are currently treated with a standard single IVIg dose (0.4 g/kg bodyweight for 5 days).\n\n A recent retrospective study in 174 GBS patients enrolled in one of our randomized controlled clinical trials showed that patients with a minor increase of serum IgG level after standard single IVIg dose recovered significantly slower.\n\n Additionally, fewer patients reached the ability to walk unaided at six months after correction for the known clinical prognostic factors (multivariate analysis; P?&lt;?0.022).\n\n\nDiscussion\nIt is yet unknown why some GBS patients only have a minor increase after standard IVIg treatment.\n\n By using the EGOS it is possible to select GBS patients with a poor prognosis.\n\n These patients potentially may benefit from a second IVIg dose.\n\n\nConclusion\nA standard dose of IVIG is not sufficiently effective in many GBS patients.\n\n Whether these patients might benefit from a second IVIg dose needs further investigation.\n\n\n","id":"PMC2883091","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Springer US","authors":[{"firstname":"Pieter A.","surname":"van Doorn","email":"p.a.vandoorn@erasmusmc.nl","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Krista","surname":"Kuitwaard","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Christa","surname":"Walgaard","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Rinske","surname":"van Koningsveld","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Liselotte","surname":"Ruts","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Bart C.","surname":"Jacobs","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Meaney-Delman D. Zika virus infection among US pregnant travelers:august 2015-February 2016. MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep. 2016;65(08):211-4.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1136/bmj.h6983","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Zika virus spreads across Americas as concerns mount over birth defects","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Leite M. The Outbreak of the Zika Virus and Reproductive Rights in Latin America. http://www.e-ir.info/2016/02/24/the-outbreak-of-the-zika-virus-and-reproductive-rights-in-latin-america/. Accessed 24 May 2017.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Mohapatra S. Public health responses to Zika: an epidemic need for reproductive and disability justice. Available at SSRN. 2016;","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Hodge JG, Corbett A, Repka A, Judd PJ. Zika virus and global implications for reproductive health reforms. Disaster Med Public Health Prep. 2014;10(5):713-5. doi:10.1017/dmp.2016.34.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1080/15265161.2016.1177367","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The paradigm of the paradox: women, pregnant women, and the unequal burdens of the Zika virus pandemic","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1038/495305a","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Policy: sustainable development goals for people and planet","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1186/s12936-016-1100-5","date":"2016-01-12","title":"Concurrent malaria and arbovirus infections in Kedougou, southeastern Senegal","abstract":"Background\nMalaria is one of the leading causes of acute febrile illness (AFI) in Africa.\n\n With the advent of malaria rapid diagnostic tests, misdiagnosis and co-morbidity with other diseases has been highlighted by an increasing number of studies.\n\n Although arboviral infections and malaria are both vector-borne diseases and often have an overlapping geographic distribution in sub-Saharan Africa, information about their incidence rates and concurrent infections is scarce.\n\n\nMethods\nFrom July 2009 to March 2013 patients from seven healthcare facilities of the Kedougou region presenting with AFI were enrolled and tested for malaria and arboviral infections, i.\n\ne.\n\n, yellow fever (YFV), West Nile (WNV), dengue (DENV), chikungunya (CHIKV), Crimean Congo haemorrhagic fever (CCHFV), Zika (ZIKV), and Rift Valley fever viruses (RVFV).\n\n Malaria parasite infections were investigated using thick blood smear (TBS) and rapid diagnostics tests (RDT) while arbovirus infections were tested by IgM antibody detection (ELISA) and RT-PCR assays.\n\n Data analysis of single or concurrent malaria and arbovirus was performed using R software.\n\n\nResults\nA total of 13,845 patients, including 7387 with malaria and 41 with acute arbovirus infections (12 YFV, nine ZIKV, 16 CHIKV, three DENV, and one RVFV) were enrolled.\n\n Among the arbovirus-infected patients, 48.7 % (20/41) were co-infected with malaria parasites at the following frequencies: CHIKV 18.7 % (3/16), YFV 58.3 % (7/12), ZIKV 88.9 % (8/9), DENV 33.3 % (1/3), and RVF 100 % (1/1).\n\n Fever ?40 °C was the only sign or symptom significantly associated with dual malaria parasite/arbovirus infection.\n\n\nConclusions\nConcurrent malaria parasite and arbovirus infections were detected in the Kedougou region from 2009 to 2013 and need to be further documented, including among asymptomatic individuals, to assess its epidemiological and clinical impact.\n\n\n","id":"PMC4730666","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"BioMed Central","authors":[{"firstname":"Abdourahmane","surname":"Sow","email":"asow@pasteur.sn","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Cheikh","surname":"Loucoubar","email":"cloucoubar@pasteur.sn","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Diawo","surname":"Diallo","email":"diawod@yahoo.fr","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Oumar","surname":"Faye","email":"oumarfaye@pasteur.sn","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Youssoupha","surname":"Ndiaye","email":"youndiaye@hotmail.com","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Cheikh Saadibou","surname":"Senghor","email":"doczenghos@yahoo.fr","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Anta Tal","surname":"Dia","email":"adia@ised.sn","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ousmane","surname":"Faye","email":"ofaye@pasteur.sn","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Scott C.","surname":"Weaver","email":"sweaver@utmb.edu","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Mawlouth","surname":"Diallo","email":"diallo@pasteur.sn","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Denis","surname":"Malvy","email":"denis.malvy@chu-bordeaux.fr","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Amadou Alpha","surname":"Sall","email":"asall@pasteur.sn","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.1007/s11427-016-5020-y","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Zika virus: a new threat from mosquitoes","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1093/infdis/jir155","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Progress toward control of rubella and prevention of congenital rubella syndrome:worldwide, 2009","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/j.prevetmed.2010.10.013","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Simulation of the seasonal cycles of bird, equine and human West Nile virus cases","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1371/journal.pntd.0000837","date":"2010-09-03","title":"Human Fatal Zaire Ebola Virus Infection Is Associated with an Aberrant Innate Immunity and with Massive Lymphocyte Apoptosis","abstract":"Background\n\nEbolavirus species Zaire (ZEBOV) causes highly lethal hemorrhagic fever, resulting in the death of 90% of patients within days.\n\n Most information on immune responses to ZEBOV comes from in vitro studies and animal models.\n\n The paucity of data on human immune responses to this virus is mainly due to the fact that most outbreaks occur in remote areas.\n\n Published studies in this setting, based on small numbers of samples and limited panels of immunological markers, have given somewhat different results.\n\n\nMethodology/Principal Findings\nHere, we studied a unique collection of 56 blood samples from 42 nonsurvivors and 14 survivors, obtained during the five outbreaks that occurred between 1996 and 2003 in Gabon and Republic of Congo.\n\n Using Luminex technology, we assayed 50 cytokines in all 56 samples and performed phenotypic analyses by flow cytometry.\n\n We found that fatal outcome was associated with hypersecretion of numerous proinflammatory cytokines (IL-1?, IL-1RA, IL-6, IL-8, IL-15 and IL-16), chemokines and growth factors (MIP-1?, MIP-1?, MCP-1, M-CSF, MIF, IP-10, GRO-? and eotaxin).\n\n Interestingly, no increase of IFN?2 was detected in patients.\n\n Furthermore, nonsurvivors were also characterized by very low levels of circulating cytokines produced by T lymphocytes (IL-2, IL-3, IL-4, IL-5, IL-9, IL-13) and by a significant drop of CD3+CD4+ and CD3+CD8+ peripheral cells as well as a high increase in CD95 expression on T lymphocytes.\n\n\nConclusions/Significance\nThis work, the largest study to be conducted to date in humans, showed that fatal outcome is associated with aberrant innate immune responses and with global suppression of adaptive immunity.\n\n The innate immune reaction was characterized by a “cytokine storm,” with hypersecretion of numerous proinflammatory cytokines, chemokines and growth factors, and by the noteworthy absence of antiviral IFN?2. Immunosuppression was characterized by very low levels of circulating cytokines produced by T lymphocytes and by massive loss of peripheral CD4 and CD8 lymphocytes, probably through Fas/FasL-mediated apoptosis.\n\n\n","id":"PMC2950153","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Public Library of Science","authors":[{"firstname":"Nadia","surname":"Wauquier","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Pierre","surname":"Becquart","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Cindy","surname":"Padilla","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Sylvain","surname":"Baize","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Eric M.","surname":"Leroy","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Thomas William","surname":"Geisbert","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Thomas William","surname":"Geisbert","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Zika virus: high infectious viral load in semen, a new sexually transmitted pathogen","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/S0140-6736(16)00624-3","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Infectious Zika viral particles in breastmilk","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1186/2049-9957-3-1","date":"2014-01-02","title":"Control of malaria and other vector-borne protozoan diseases in the tropics: enduring challenges despite considerable progress and achievements","abstract":"Vector-borne protozoan diseases represent a serious public health challenge, especially in the tropics where poverty together with vector-favorable climates are the aggravating factors.\n Each of the various strategies currently employed to face these scourges is seriously inadequate.\n Despite enormous efforts, vaccines—which represent the ideal weapon against these parasitic diseases—are yet to be sufficiently developed and implemented.\n Chemotherapy and vector control are therefore the sole effective attempts to minimize the disease burden.\n Nowadays, both strategies are also highly challenged by the phenomenon of drug and insecticide resistance, which affects virtually all interventions currently used.\n The recently growing support from international organizations and governments of some endemic countries is warmly welcome, and should be optimally exploited in the various approaches to drug and insecticide research and development to overcome the burden of these prevalent diseases, especially malaria, leishmaniasis, Human African Trypanosomiasis (HAT), and Chagas disease.\n","id":"PMC3895778","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"BioMed Central","authors":[{"firstname":"Denis","surname":"Zofou","email":"zofden@yahoo.com","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Raymond B","surname":"Nyasa","email":"nyasab@yahoo.co.uk","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Dickson S","surname":"Nsagha","email":"nsaghads@hotmail.com","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Fidele","surname":"Ntie-Kang","email":"ntiefidele@gmail.com","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Henry D","surname":"Meriki","email":"merilonga@yahoo.com","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jules Clement N","surname":"Assob","email":"juleclement@yahoo.fr","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Victor","surname":"Kuete","email":"kuetevictor@yahoo.fr","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.1007/s10815-016-0687-3","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The chasm between public health and reproductive research: what history tells us about Zika virus","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/j.medcli.2016.02.002","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Guillain-Barre syndrome due to Zika virus during pregnancy","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/S0140-6736(16)00562-6","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Guillain-Barre syndrome outbreak associated with Zika virus infection in French Polynesia: a case-control study","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1002/uog.15885","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Etiological agents of microcephaly: implications for diagnosis during the current Zika virus epidemic","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.2807/1560-7917.ES2014.19.9.20720","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Zika virus infection complicated by Guillain-Barre syndrome--case report, French Polynesia, December 2013","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/S0140-6736(16)00650-4","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Teratogenic effects of the Zika virus and the role of the placenta","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Woodward A, Porter JR. Food, hunger, health, and climate change. Lancet. 2016;387(10031):1886-7. doi:10.1016/S0140-6736(16)00349-4.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/S0140-6736(16)00274-9","date":"1970-01-01","title":"A crucial time for public health preparedness: Zika virus and the 2016 Olympics, Umrah, and Hajj","abstract":"","id":"PMC7138056","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Elsevier Ltd.","authors":[{"firstname":"Habida","surname":"Elachola","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ernesto","surname":"Gozzer","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jiatong","surname":"Zhuo","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ziad A","surname":"Memish","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Oster AM. Interim guidelines for prevention of sexual transmission of Zika virus:United States, 2016. MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep. 2016;65(5);120-1.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1136/bmj.i1155","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Zika highlights need for ethical framework for developing vaccines for pregnant women","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1001/jamaophthalmol.2016.0267","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Ocular findings in infants with microcephaly associated with presumed Zika virus congenital infection in Salvador, Brazil","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1001/jama.2016.2237","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Pregnancy in the time of Zika: addressing barriers for developing vaccines and other measures for pregnant women","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/j.parepi.2017.01.001","date":"2017-01-29","title":"Addressing knowledge gaps in molecular, sero-surveillance and monitoring approaches on Zika epidemics and other arbovirus co-infections: A structured review","abstract":"Globalization, with consequent increased travel and trade, rapid urbanization and growing weather variation events due to climate change has contributed to the recent unprecedented Zika virus (ZIKV) pandemic.\n This has emphasized the pressing need for local, national, regional and global community collaborative proactiveness, leadership and financial investment resilience in research and development.\n This paper addresses the potential knowledge gaps and impact of early detection and monitoring approaches on ZIKV epidemics and related arboviral infections steered towards effective prevention and smart response strategies.\n We advocate for the development and validation of robust field and point of care diagnostic tools that are more sensitive, specific and cost effective for use in ZIKV epidemics and routine pathophysiology surveillance and monitoring systems as an imperative avenue in understanding Zika-related and other arbovirus trends and apply genomic and proteomic characterisation approaches in guiding annotation efforts in order to design and implement public health burden mitigation and adaptation strategies.\n","id":"PMC5952677","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Elsevier","authors":[{"firstname":"Ernest","surname":"Tambo","email":"tambo0711@gmail.com","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Christopher","surname":"Khayeka-Wandabwa","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Oluwasogo A.","surname":"Olalubi","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ahmed A.","surname":"Adedeji","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jeanne Y.","surname":"Ngogang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Emad IM","surname":"Khater","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]}]},{"doi":"10.1007/s10461-018-2043-3","date":"1970-01-01","title":"HIV Testing and Counseling Among Female Sex Workers: A Systematic Literature Review","abstract":"id='Par1'>HIV testing uptake continues to be low among Female Sex Workers (FSWs).\n We synthesizes evidence on barriers and facilitators to HIV testing among FSW as well as frequencies of testing, willingness to test, and return rates to collect results.\n We systematically searched the MEDLINE/PubMed, EMBASE, SCOPUS databases for articles published in English between January 2000 and November 2017. Out of 5036 references screened, we retained 36 papers.\n The two barriers to HIV testing most commonly reported were financial and time costs—including low income, transportation costs, time constraints, and formal/informal payments—as well as the stigma and discrimination ascribed to HIV positive people and sex workers.\n Social support facilitated testing with consistently higher uptake amongst married FSWs and women who were encouraged to test by peers and managers.\n The consistent finding that social support facilitated HIV testing calls for its inclusion into current HIV testing strategies addressed at FSW.\n","id":"PMC6097720","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Springer US","authors":[{"firstname":"Anna","surname":"Tokar","email":"anna.tokar@isglobal.org","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jacqueline E. W.","surname":"Broerse","email":"j.e.w.broerse@vu.nl","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Jacqueline E. W.","surname":"Broerse","email":"j.e.w.broerse@vu.nl","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"James","surname":"Blanchard","email":"blanchard@cc.umanitoba.ca","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Maria","surname":"Roura","email":"maria.roura@ul.ie","contributions":"1"}],"References depth 2":[{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Joint United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS (UNAIDS). The Gap report. 2014: Geneva,Switzerlan. UNAIDS/JC2684.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"European Center of Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC), HIV Testing: increase uptake and effectiveness in the European Union. 2010: Solna, Sweden.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"World Health Organization (WHO), Consolidated guidelines on HIV testing services 2015. July, 2015:Geneva, Switzerlan.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Joint United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS (UNAIDS). 90-90-90 An ambitious treatment to help end the AIDS epidemic. 2014: Geneva, Switzerlan.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1136/sti.78.suppl_1.i1","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Phase specific approaches to the epidemiology and prevention of sexually transmitted diseases","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1136/sextrans-2012-050491","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Systematic review examining differences in HIV, sexually transmitted infections and health-related harms between migrant and non-migrant female sex workers","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1136/bmjopen-2013-002836","date":"2013-05-30","title":"Factors mediating HIV risk among female sex workers in Europe: a systematic review and ecological analysis","abstract":"Objectives\nWe reviewed the epidemiology of HIV and selected sexually transmitted infections (STIs) among female sex workers (FSWs) in WHO-defined Europe.\n\n There were three objectives: (1) to assess the prevalence of HIV and STIs (chlamydia, syphilis and gonorrhoea); (2) to describe structural and individual-level risk factors associated with prevalence and (3) to examine the relationship between structural-level factors and national estimates of HIV prevalence among FSWs.\n\n\nDesign\nA systematic search of published and unpublished literature measuring HIV/STIs and risk factors among FSWs, identified through electronic databases published since 2005. ‘Best’ estimates of HIV prevalence were calculated from the systematic review to provide national level estimates of HIV.\n\n Associations between HIV prevalence and selected structural-level indicators were assessed using linear regression models.\n\n\nStudies reviewed\nOf the 1993 papers identified in the search, 73 peer-reviewed and grey literature documents were identified as meeting our criteria of which 63 papers provided unique estimates of HIV and STI prevalence and nine reported multivariate risk factors for HIV/STI among FSWs.\n\n\nResults\nHIV in Europe remains low among FSWs who do not inject drugs (&lt;1%), but STIs are high, particularly syphilis in the East and gonorrhoea.\n\n FSWs experience high levels of violence and structural risk factors associated with HIV, including lack of access to services and working on the street.\n\n Linear regression models showed HIV among FSWs to link with injecting drug use and imprisonment.\n\n\nConclusions\nFindings show that HIV prevention interventions should be nested inside strategies that address the social welfare of sex workers, highlighting in turn the need to target the social determinants of health and inequality, including regarding access to services, experience of violence and migration.\n\n Future epidemiological and intervention studies of HIV among vulnerable populations need to better systematically delineate how microenvironmental and macroenvironmental factors combine to increase or reduce HIV/STI risk.\n\n\n","id":"PMC3731729","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"BMJ Publishing Group","authors":[{"firstname":"Lucy","surname":"Platt","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Emma","surname":"Jolley","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Tim","surname":"Rhodes","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Vivian","surname":"Hope","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Alisher","surname":"Latypov","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Lucy","surname":"Reynolds","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"David","surname":"Wilson","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.1016/S1473-3099(12)70066-X","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Burden of HIV among female sex workers in low-income and middle-income countries: a systematic review and meta-analysis","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1111/j.1365-3156.2008.02040.x","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Effectiveness of interventions for the prevention of HIV and other sexually transmitted infections in female sex workers in resource poor setting: a systematic review","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Wariki W.M., Ota E., Mori R., Koyanagi A., Hori N., Shibuya K., Behavioral interventions to reduce the transmission of HIV infection among sex workers and their clients in low- and middle-income countries (Review). TheCochraneCollaboration and published in TheCochrane Library, 2012(2).","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1371/journal.pone.0088047","date":"2013-12-20","title":"Epidemic Impacts of a Community Empowerment Intervention for HIV Prevention among Female Sex Workers in Generalized and Concentrated Epidemics","abstract":"Introduction\nSex workers have endured a high burden of HIV infection in and across HIV epidemics.\n\n A comprehensive, community empowerment-based HIV prevention intervention emphasizes sex worker organization and mobilization to address HIV risk and often includes community-led peer education, condom distribution, and other activities.\n\n Meta-analysis of such interventions suggests a potential 51% reduction in inconsistent condom use.\n\n Mathematical modeling exercises provide theoretical insight into potential impacts of the intervention on HIV incidence and burden in settings where interventions have not yet been implemented.\n\n\nMethods\nWe used a deterministic model, Goals, to project the impact on HIV infections when the community empowerment interventions were scaled up among female sex workers in Kenya, Thailand, Brazil, and Ukraine.\n\n Modeling scenarios included expansion of the comprehensive community empowerment-based HIV prevention intervention from baseline coverage over a 5-year period (5–65% in Kenya and Ukraine; 10–70% in Thailand and Brazil), while other interventions were held at baseline levels.\n\n A second exercise increased the intervention coverage simultaneously with equitable access to ART for sex workers.\n\n Impacts on HIV outcomes among sex workers and adults are observed from 2012–2016 and, compared to status quo when all interventions are held constant.\n\n\nResults\nOptimistic but feasible coverage (65%–70%) of the intervention demonstrated a range of impacts on HIV: 220 infections averted over 5 yrs.\n\n among sex workers in Thailand, 1,830 in Brazil, 2,220 in Ukraine, and 10,800 infections in Kenya.\n\n Impacts of the intervention for female sex workers extend to the adult population, cumulatively averting 730 infections in Thailand to 20,700 adult infections in Kenya.\n\n Impacts vary by country, influenced by HIV prevalence in risk groups, risk behaviors, intervention use, and population size.\n\n\nDiscussion\nA community empowerment approach to HIV prevention and access to universal ART for female sex workers is a promising human rights-based solution to overcoming the persistent burden of HIV among female sex workers across epidemic settings.\n\n\n","id":"PMC3916392","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Public Library of Science","authors":[{"firstname":"Andrea L.","surname":"Wirtz","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Carel","surname":"Pretorius","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Chris","surname":"Beyrer","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Stefan","surname":"Baral","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Michele R.","surname":"Decker","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Susan G.","surname":"Sherman","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Michael","surname":"Sweat","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Tonia","surname":"Poteat","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jennifer","surname":"Butler","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Robert","surname":"Oelrichs","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Iris","surname":"Semini","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Deanna","surname":"Kerrigan","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Linda M.","surname":"Niccolai","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Linda M.","surname":"Niccolai","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1007/s10461-013-0458-4","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Community empowerment among female sex workers is an effective HIV prevention intervention: a systematic review of the peer-reviewed evidence from low- and middle-income countries","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1371/journal.pmed.1001496","date":"2013-06-27","title":"Towards Universal Voluntary HIV Testing and Counselling: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis of Community-Based Approaches","abstract":"In a systematic review and meta-analysis, Amitabh Suthar and colleagues describe the evidence base for different HIV testing and counseling services provided outside of health facilities.\n","id":"PMC3742447","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Public Library of Science","authors":[{"firstname":"Amitabh B.","surname":"Suthar","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Nathan","surname":"Ford","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Pamela J.","surname":"Bachanas","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Vincent J.","surname":"Wong","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jay S.","surname":"Rajan","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Alex K.","surname":"Saltzman","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Olawale","surname":"Ajose","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ade O.","surname":"Fakoya","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Reuben M.","surname":"Granich","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Eyerusalem K.","surname":"Negussie","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Rachel C.","surname":"Baggaley","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Stephanie L.","surname":"Sansom","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Stephanie L.","surname":"Sansom","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Deblonde J., De Koker P., Hamers F. F., Fontaine J., Luchters S., Temmerman M., Barriers to HIV testing in Europe: a systematic review. 2010.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Spencer L., Ritchie J., Jane Lewis J., Dillon L., Quality in Qualitative Evaluation: A framework for assessing research evidence, in National Centre for Social Research. 2003.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1136/jech.52.6.377","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The feasibility of creating a checklist for the assessment of the methodological quality both of randomised and non-randomised studies of health care interventions","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1590/0102-311X00138514","date":"1970-01-01","title":"HIV-testing among female sex workers on the border between Brazil and French Guiana: the need for targeted interventions","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1097/01.aids.0000191921.31808.8c","date":"1970-01-01","title":"HIV testing among female sex workers in Andhra Pradesh, India","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/S0895-3988(11)60009-3","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Reported willingness and associated factors related to utilization of voluntary counseling and testing services by female sex workers in Shandong Province, China","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1007/s10461-010-9703-2","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Factors associated with utilization of a free HIV VCT clinic by female sex workers in Jinan City, North China","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1136/sti.2009.036673","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Sex workers can be screened too often: a costeffectiveness analysis in Victoria, Australia","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Emergent properties and structural patterns in sexually transmitted infection and HIV research","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1097/OLQ.0b013e3181f0bc5e","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Factors associated with HIV testing history and HIV-test result follow-up among female sex workers in two cities in Yunnan, China","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1177/1049732313494854","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Structural barriers to receiving health care services for female sex workers in Russia","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1080/09540121.2014.978730","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Successes and gaps in uptake of regular, voluntary HIV testing for hidden street- and off-street sex workers in Vancouver, Canada","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"High acceptability of HIV voluntary counselling and testing among female sex workers: impact of individual and social factors","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1080/09540121.2014.938013","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Levels of alcohol use and history of HIV testing among female sex workers in Mombasa, Kenya","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Understanding the intention to undergo regular HIV testing among female sex workers in Benin: a key issue for entry into HIV care","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Outreach strategies for the promotion of HIV testing and care: closing the gap between health services and female sex workers in Benin","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1007/s10461-005-1680-5","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Factors associated with HIV testing, condom use, and sexually transmitted infections among female sex workers in Nha Trang, Vietnam","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1007/s10461-011-9960-8","date":"1970-01-01","title":"HIV testing behaviors among female sex workers in Southwest China","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1007/s10461-006-9155-x","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Prevalence and correlates of condom use and HIV testing among female sex workers in Tashkent, Uzbekistan: implications for HIV transmission","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.3402/gha.v6i0.20690","date":"2013-06-22","title":"HIV voluntary testing and perceived risk among female sex workers in the Mekong Delta region of Vietnam","abstract":"Introduction\nHIV voluntary counseling and testing (VCT) comprise an effective preventive measure and an entry point to care and support services.\n\n We sought to assess VCT uptake and HIV-related knowledge and perceived risk among female sex workers (FSWs) in five provinces of the Mekong Delta region.\n\n\nMethods\nA cross-sectional survey was carried out in 1998 FSWs, including both street-based sex workers (SSWs) and entertainment-based sex workers (ESWs).\n\n\nResults\nHigh proportions of FSWs were aware that using condoms (94.6%), and clean needles (34.1%) are preventive measures that reduce the risk of HIV transmission.\n\n Some FSWs reported avoiding public toilet use (8.6%), physical contacts (16.1%), or sharing meals (10.9%) with people living with HIV/AIDS, and preventing mosquito bites (20.8%).\n\n Twenty-nine percent (29.0%) of FSWs perceived themselves as being at risk of HIV infection.\n\n Only 32.7% had ever tested for HIV, of whom 54% were voluntary for testing.\n\n FSWs who ever injected drugs (OR = 0.03, p=0.05), had drug-injecting clients (OR = 0.07, p&lt;0.01), and had inconsistent condom use with husbands or lovers (OR = 0.10, p=0.01) were less likely to have a voluntary test.\n\n Inconsistent condom use with clients (OR = 13.86, p&lt;0.01), and receiving HIV information from radio (OR = 13.28, p&lt;0.05) and communication campaigns (OR = 6.69, p&lt;0.05), increased the likelihood of VCT uptake.\n\n\nConclusion\nInadequate knowledge and some misconceptions about HIV transmission routes and preventive measures, low perceived risk of HIV infection, and low VCT uptake were observed among FSWs in the Mekong Delta region.\n\n Interventions to improve their knowledge and self-efficacy, reduce risky behaviors, and encourage VCT uptake and early access to health care services are necessary to prevent HIV transmission in this region.\n\n\n","id":"PMC3715652","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Co-Action Publishing","authors":[{"firstname":"Bach Xuan","surname":"Tran","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Long Thanh","surname":"Nguyen","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Nhung Phuong","surname":"Nguyen","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Huong Thu Thi","surname":"Phan","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.1080/17441692.2015.1124905","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Motivators and barriers to HIV testing among street-based female sex workers in St. Petersburg, Russia","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1371/journal.pone.0147587","date":"2016-01-06","title":"Correlates of HIV Testing among Female Sex Workers in Iran: Findings of a National Bio-Behavioural Surveillance Survey","abstract":"Introduction\nFemale sex workers (FSWs) are the second most affected population by HIV in Iran.\n\n However, their HIV testing practices are poorly understood.\n\n The aim of this study was to investigate testing and its associated factors among HIV negative FSWs.\n\n\nMaterials and Methods\nUsing facility based sampling, 1005 FSWs were recruited in 14 cities of Iran in 2010. Biological and survey data were collected through dried blood spot testing and standardized risk assessment questionnaire, respectively.\n\n In this paper, the prevalence of HIV testing and its correlates were explored among 714 HIV-negative FSWs using descriptive statistics and logistic regression models.\n\n\nResults\nOverall 65.4% had not tested in the past year.\n\n Only 27.5% had tested in the past year and received their results.\n\n FSWs who perceived themselves at risk of HIV (Adjusted Odds Ratio (AOR) = 8.35, 95% CI: 1.46, 47.6), had received free condom during past year (AOR = 3.90, 95% CI: 1.67, 9.14), started sex work at an older age (AOR18–24 = 2.83, 95% CI: 1.14, 7.0; AOR &gt;24 = 2.76, 95% CI: 1.11, 6.84), and knew an HIV testing site (AOR = 5.67, 95% CI: 2.60, 12.4) had a significantly higher chance of having a recent HIV test result.\n\n\nConclusions\nLess than one third of FSWs in Iran knew their recent HIV status.\n\n Interventions to help FSWs evaluate their potential risk for HIV and integrate HIV testing services in condom distribution programs, could be viable strategies in increasing HIV testing uptake among FSWs.\n\n Health policy makers should also try to de-stigmatize HIV testing, identify the barriers to HIV testing, and make HIV testing sites more visible to FSWs.\n\n\n","id":"PMC4726705","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Public Library of Science","authors":[{"firstname":"Mostafa","surname":"Shokoohi","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Mohammad","surname":"Karamouzian","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Razieh","surname":"Khajekazemi","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Mehdi","surname":"Osooli","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Hamid","surname":"Sharifi","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ali Akbar","surname":"Haghdoost","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Kianoush","surname":"Kamali","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ali","surname":"Mirzazadeh","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Anil","surname":"Kumar","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Anil","surname":"Kumar","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Frequency of performing HIV test and reasons of not-testing among female sex workers","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Mapping spatial barriers and facilitators to HIV testing by work environments among sex workers in Vancouver, Canada","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1093/aje/kwq447","date":"1970-01-01","title":"HIV prevention support ties determine access to HIV testing among migrant female sex workers in Beijing, China","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1007/s10461-017-1844-0","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Remaining gap in HIV testing uptake among female sex workers in Iran","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1007/s10461-016-1616-2","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Associations of HIV testing, sexual risk and access to prevention among female sex workers in the dominican republic","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1007/s10461-008-9446-5","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Factors related to female sex workers' Willingness to utilize VCT service: a qualitative study in Jinan City, Northern China","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1371/journal.pone.0080594","date":"2013-10-04","title":"Factors Associated with Willingness to Accept Oral Fluid HIV Rapid Testing among Most-at-Risk Populations in China","abstract":"Background\nThe availability of oral fluid HIV rapid testing provides an approach that may have the potential to expand HIV testing in China, especially among most-a-risk populations.\n\n There are few investigations about the acceptability of oral fluid HIV testing among most-at-risk populations in China.\n\n\nMethod\nA cross-sectional study with men who have sex with men (MSM), female sex workers (FSW) and voluntary counseling and testing (VCT) clients was conducted in three cities of Shandong province, China from 2011 to 2012. Data were collected by face-to-face questionnaire.\n\n\nResults\nAbout 71% of participants were willing to accept the oral fluid HIV rapid testing, and home HIV testing was independently associated with acceptability of the new testing method among MSM, FSW and VCT clients (AOR of 4.46, 3.19 and 5.74, respectively).\n\n Independent predictors of oral fluid HIV rapid testing acceptability among MSM were having ever taken an oral fluid HIV rapid test (AOR= 15.25), having ever taken an HIV test (AOR= 2.07), and education level (AOR= 1.74).\n\n Engagement in HIV-related risk behaviors (AOR= 1.68) was an independent predictor of acceptability for FSW.\n\n Having taken an HIV test (AOR= 2.85) was an independent predictor of acceptability for VCT clients.\n\n The primary concern about the oral fluid HIV testing was accuracy.\n\n The median price they would pay for the testing ranged from 4.8 to 8.1 U.\n\nS.\n\n dollars.\n\n\nConclusion\nHigh acceptability of oral fluid HIV rapid testing was shown among most-at-risk populations.\n\n Findings provide support for oral rapid HIV testing as another HIV prevention tool, and provide a backdrop for the implementation of HIV home testing in the near future.\n\n Appropriate pricing and increased public education through awareness campaigns that address concerns about the accuracy and safety of the oral fluid HIV rapid testing may help increase acceptability and use among most-at-risk populations in China.\n\n\n","id":"PMC3834295","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Public Library of Science","authors":[{"firstname":"Huanmiao","surname":"Xun","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Dianmin","surname":"Kang","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Tao","surname":"Huang","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Yuesheng","surname":"Qian","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Xiufang","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Erin C.","surname":"Wilson","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Shan","surname":"Yang","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Zhenxia","surname":"Jiang","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Cuihua","surname":"Gong","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Xiaorun","surname":"Tao","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Xijiang","surname":"Zhang","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Guoyong","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Yapei","surname":"Song","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Zhijian","surname":"Xu","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Gifty","surname":"Marley","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Pengcheng","surname":"Huai","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Wei","surname":"Ma","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Joseph David","surname":"Tucker","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Joseph David","surname":"Tucker","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Access to HIV testing for sex workers in Bangkok, Thailand: a high prevalence of HIV among street-based sex workers","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1097/OLQ.0b013e31816b322c","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Environmental support and HIV prevention behaviors among female sex workers in China","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1007/s10461-008-9418-9","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Promoting HIV testing and condom use among filipina commercial sex workers: findings from a quasi-experimental intervention study","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1007/s10461-013-0447-7","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The influence of stigma and discrimination on female sex workers' access to HIV services in St. Petersburg, Russia","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.2989/16085906.2015.1040809","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Attracting female sex workers to HIV testing and counselling in Ethiopia: a qualitative study with sex workers in Addis Ababa","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1136/jech-2011-200475","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Personal, interpersonal and structural challenges to accessing HIV testing, treatment and care services among female sex workers, men who have sex with men and transgenders in Karnataka state, South India","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1089/apc.2017.0016","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Barriers and Facilitators to HIV Testing Among Zambian Female Sex Workers in Three Transit Hubs","abstract":"Zambia has a generalized HIV epidemic, and HIV is concentrated along transit routes.\n Female sex workers (FSWs) are disproportionately affected by the epidemic.\n HIV testing is the crucial first step for engagement in HIV care and HIV prevention activities.\n However, to date little work has been done with FSWs in Zambia, and little is known about barriers and facilitators to HIV testing in this population.\n FSW peer educators were recruited through existing sex worker organizations for participation in a trial related to HIV testing among FSWs.\n We conducted five focus groups with FSW peer educators (N?=?40) in three transit towns in Zambia (Livingstone, Chirundu, and Kapiri Mposhi) to elicit community norms related to HIV testing.\n Emerging themes demonstrated barriers and facilitators to HIV testing occurring at multiple levels, including individual, social network, and structural.\n Stigma and discrimination, including healthcare provider stigma, were a particularly salient barrier.\n Improving knowledge, social support, and acknowledgment of FSWs and women's role in society emerged as facilitators to testing.\n Interventions to improve HIV testing among FSWs in Zambia will need to address barriers and facilitators at multiple levels to be maximally effective.\n","id":"PMC5512327","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Mary Ann Liebert, Inc.","authors":[{"firstname":"Michael M.","surname":"Chanda","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Amaya G.","surname":"Perez-Brumer","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Katrina F.","surname":"Ortblad","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Magdalene","surname":"Mwale","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Steven","surname":"Chongo","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Nyambe","surname":"Kamungoma","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Catherine","surname":"Kanchele","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Andrew","surname":"Fullem","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Leah","surname":"Barresi","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Till","surname":"Bärnighausen","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Catherine E.","surname":"Oldenburg","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.1080/09540120601163078","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Health-seeking behaviour for sexually transmitted infections and HIV testing among female sex workers in Vietnam","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1186/s12914-017-0119-1","date":"2017-05-02","title":"“When they know that you are a sex worker, you will be the last person to be treated”: Perceptions and experiences of female sex workers in accessing HIV services in Uganda","abstract":"Background\nHIV prevalence among female sex workers (FSWs) in high burden countries in sub-Saharan Africa varies between 24 and 72%, however their access to HIV services remains limited.\n\n This study explored FSWs’ perspectives of the barriers and opportunities to HIV service access in Uganda.\n\n\nMethods\nThe cross-sectional qualitative study was conducted between October and December 2013. Twenty-four focus group discussions were conducted with 190 FSWs in 12 districts.\n\n Data were analysed using manifest content analysis, using Atlas.\n\nti software, based on the socio-ecological model.\n\n\nResults\nFSWs indicated that HIV services were available and these included condoms, HIV testing and treatment, and management of sexually transmitted infections.\n\n However, access to HIV services was affected by several individual, societal, structural, and policy related barriers.\n\n Individual level factors included limited awareness of some prevention services, fears, and misconceptions while societal stigma was prominent.\n\n Structural and policy level barriers included inconvenient hours of operation of the clinics, inflexible facility based distribution of condoms, interuptions in the supply of condoms and other commodities, and limited package of services with virtually no access to lubricants, HIV pre- and post-exposure prophylaxis, and support following client perpetrated violence.\n\n Policies such as partner testing and involvement at antenatal care, and using only one facility for antiretroviral drug refills hindered HIV service uptake and retention in care.\n\n FSWs had major concerns with the quality of services especially discrimination and rude remarks from providers, denial or delay of services, and potential for breach of confidentiality.\n\n However, some FSWs reported positive experiences including interface with friendly providers and participated in formal and informal FSW groups, which supported them to access health services.\n\n\nConclusion\nDespite availability of services, FSWs faced major challenges in access to services.\n\n Comprehensive multilevel interventions targeting individual, societal, structural and policy level barriers are required to increase access to HIVservices among FSWs in Uganda.\n\n Policy and institutional adjustments should emphasize quality friendly services and expanding the package of services to meet the needs of FSWs.\n\n\n","id":"PMC5420144","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"BioMed Central","authors":[{"firstname":"Rhoda K.","surname":"Wanyenze","email":"rwanyenze@hotmail.com","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Geofrey","surname":"Musinguzi","email":"mgeof@musph.ac.ug","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Juliet","surname":"Kiguli","email":"jkiguli@musph.ac.ug","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Fred","surname":"Nuwaha","email":"fnuwaha@musph.ac.ug","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Geoffrey","surname":"Mujisha","email":"gmujisha@marps.net","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Joshua","surname":"Musinguzi","email":"joshuamusinguzi@yahoo.co.uk","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jim","surname":"Arinaitwe","email":"jim_ari@yahoo.co.uk","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Joseph K. B.","surname":"Matovu","email":"jmatovu@musph.ac.ug","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.1080/13691058.2012.763187","date":"1970-01-01","title":"'We are despised in the hospitals': sex workers' experiences of accessing health care in four African countries","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Model of human rights protection of sex workers exposed to forced HIV/STI testing through combination of court litigation and psycho-social support","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1371/journal.pone.0183280","date":"2017-08-01","title":"HIV self-testing values and preferences among sex workers, fishermen, and mainland community members in Rakai, Uganda: A qualitative study","abstract":"HIV self-testing may encourage greater uptake of testing, particularly among key populations and other high-risk groups, but local community perceptions will influence test uptake and use.\n We conducted 33 in-depth interviews and 6 focus group discussions with healthcare providers and community members in high-risk fishing communities (including sex workers and fishermen) and lower-risk mainland communities in rural Uganda to evaluate values and preferences around HIV self-testing.\n While most participants were unfamiliar with HIV self-testing, they cited a range of potential benefits, including privacy, convenience, and ability to test before sex.\n Concerns focused on the absence of a health professional, risks of careless kit disposal and limited linkage to care.\n Participants also discussed issues of kit distribution strategies and cost, among others.\n Ultimately, most participants concluded that benefits outweighed risks.\n Our findings suggest a potential role for HIV self-testing across populations in these settings, particularly among these key populations.\n Program implementers will need to consider how to balance HIV self-testing accessibility with necessary professional support.\n","id":"PMC5558930","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Public Library of Science","authors":[{"firstname":"Virginia M.","surname":"Burke","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Neema","surname":"Nakyanjo","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Neema","surname":"Nakyanjo","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"William","surname":"Ddaaki","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Caitlin","surname":"Payne","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Naadiya","surname":"Hutchinson","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Maria J.","surname":"Wawer","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Fred","surname":"Nalugoda","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Caitlin E.","surname":"Kennedy","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Georgios ?","surname":"Nikolopoulos","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Georgios ?","surname":"Nikolopoulos","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1097/COH.0000000000000042","date":"1970-01-01","title":"HIV infection among female sex workers in concentrated and high prevalence epidemics: why a structural determinants framework is needed","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Shannon K., Strathdee A. S., Goldenberg M. S., Duff P., Mwangi P., Rusakova M., Reza-Paul S., Lau J., Deering K., Pickles R. M., Boily M. C., Goldenberg S. M., Deering K. N., Strathdee S. A., Global epidemiology of HIV among female sex workers: infl uence of structural determinants. Lancet HIV and sex workers Series, 2014.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"World Health Organization (WHO), Delivering HIV test results and messages for re-testing and counselling in adults. 2010: Geneva, Switzerlan.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Barriers and facilitators to HIV testing in migrants in high-income countries: a systematic review","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1093/eurpub/cks130","date":"1970-01-01","title":"HIV testing and counselling for migrant populations living in high-income countries: a systematic review","abstract":"Background: The barriers to HIV testing and counselling that migrants encounter can jeopardize proactive HIV testing that relies on the fact that HIV testing must be linked to care.\n We analyse available evidence on HIV testing and counselling strategies targeting migrants and ethnic minorities in high-income countries.\n Methods: Systematic literature review of the five main databases of articles in English from Europe, North America and Australia between 2005 and 2009. Results: Of 1034 abstracts, 37 articles were selected.\n Migrants, mainly from HIV-endemic countries, are at risk of HIV infection and its consequences.\n The HIV prevalence among migrants is higher than the general population’s, and migrants have higher frequency of delayed HIV diagnosis.\n For migrants from countries with low HIV prevalence and for ethnic minorities, socio-economic vulnerability puts them at risk of acquiring HIV.\n Migrants have specific legal and administrative impediments to accessing HIV testing—in some countries, undocumented migrants are not entitled to health care—as well as cultural and linguistic barriers, racism and xenophobia.\n Migrants and ethnic minorities fear stigma from their communities, yet community acceptance is key for well-being.\n Conclusions: Migrants and ethnic minorities should be offered HIV testing, but the barriers highlighted in this review may deter programs from achieving the final goal, which is linking migrants and ethnic minorities to HIV clinical care under the public health perspective.\n","id":"PMC4051291","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Oxford University Press","authors":[{"firstname":"Debora","surname":"Alvarez-del Arco","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Susana","surname":"Monge","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Amaya","surname":"Azcoaga","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Isabel","surname":"Rio","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Victoria","surname":"Hernando","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Cristina","surname":"Gonzalez","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Belen","surname":"Alejos","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ana Maria","surname":"Caro","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Santiago","surname":"Perez-Cachafeiro","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Oriana","surname":"Ramirez-Rubio","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Francisco","surname":"Bolumar","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Teymur","surname":"Noori","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Julia","surname":"Del Amo","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.18553/jmcp.2008.14.S3-A.2","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Gender differences in health care expenditures, resource utilization, and quality of care","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"World Health Organization, W., Global update on the health sector response to HIV, 2014. 2014.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1080/13691058.2013.875222","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Debe cuidarse en la calle: Normative influences on condom use among the steady male partners of female sex workers in the Dominican Republic","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1186/1471-2458-11-S6-S11","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Condom use within non-commercial partnerships of female sex workers in southern India","abstract":"Background\nAlthough female sex workers (FSWs) report high levels of condom use with commercial sex clients, particularly after targeted HIV preventive interventions have been implemented, condom use is often low with non-commercial partners.\n\n There is limited understanding regarding the factors that influence condom use with FSWs’ non-commercial partners, and of how programs can be designed to increase condom use with these partners.\n\n The main objectives of this study were therefore to describe FSWs’ self-reported non-commercial partners, along with interpersonal factors characterizing their non-commercial partnerships, and to examine the factors associated with consistent condom use (CCU) within non-commercial partnerships.\n\n\nMethods\nThis study used data collected from cross-sectional questionnaires administered to 988 FSWs in four districts in Karnataka state in 2006-07. We used bivariate and multivariable logistic regression analysis to examine the relationship between CCU (i.\n\ne.\n\n, ‘always’ compared to ‘never’, ‘sometimes’ or ‘frequently’) with non-commercial partners of FSWs (including the respondents’ husband or main cohabiting partner [if not married] and their most recent non-paying partner [who is neither a husband nor the main cohabiting partner, and with whom the FSW had sex within the previous year]) and interpersonal factors describing these partnerships, as well as social and environmental factors.\n\n Weighting and survey methods were used to account for the cluster sampling design.\n\n\nResults\nOverall, 511 (51.8%) FSWs reported having a husband or cohabiting partner and 247 (23.7%) reported having a non-paying partner.\n\n CCU with these partners was low (22.6% and 40.3% respectively).\n\n In multivariable analysis, the odds of CCU with FSWs’ husband or cohabiting partner were 1.8-fold higher for FSWs whose partner knew she was a sex worker (adjusted odds ratio [AOR]: 1.84, 95% confidence intervals[CI]: 1.02-3.32) and almost 6-fold higher if the FSW was unmarried (AOR: 5.73, 95%CI: 2.79-11.76].\n\n CCU with FSWs’ non-paying partner decreased by 18% for each one-year increase in the duration of the relationship (AOR: 0.82, 95%CI: 0.68-0.97).\n\n\nConclusions\nThis study revealed important patterns and interpersonal determinants of condom use within non-commercial partnerships of FSWs.\n\n Integrated structural and community-driven HIV/STI prevention programs that focus on gender and reduce sex work stigma should be investigated to increase condom use in non-commercial partnerships.\n\n\n","id":"PMC3287549","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"BioMed Central","authors":[{"firstname":"Kathleen N","surname":"Deering","email":"kdeering@cfenet.ubc.ca","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Paranita","surname":"Bhattacharjee","email":"parinita@khpt.org","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Janet","surname":"Bradley","email":"jbradley@uresp.ulaval.ca","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Stephen S","surname":"Moses","email":"smoses@cc.umanitoba.ca","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Kate","surname":"Shannon","email":"kshannon@cfenet.ubc.ca","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Souradet Y","surname":"Shaw","email":"umshaw@cc.umanitoba.ca","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Reynold","surname":"Washington","email":"reynold@khpt.org","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Catherine M","surname":"Lowndes","email":"catherine.lowndes@hpa.org.uk","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Marie-Claude","surname":"Boily","email":"mc.boily@imperial.ac.uk","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Banadakoppa M","surname":"Ramesh","email":"bmramesh@khpt.org","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"S","surname":"Rajaram","email":"rajaram@khpt.org","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Kaveri","surname":"Gurav","email":"kaveri.gurav@khpt.org","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Michel","surname":"Alary","email":"malary@uresp.ulaval.ca","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.1097/00002030-200302140-00016","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Environmental-structural factors significantly associated with consistent condom use among female sex workers in the Dominican Republic","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Factbook, 100 Countries and Their Prostitution Policies. 2015 Last updated on: 4/1/2015; Available from: http://prostitution.procon.org/view.resource.php?resourceID=000772.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"A systematic review of interventions to reduce HIV-related stigma and discrimination from 2002 to 2013: how far have we come?","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"World Health Organization (WHO), Guideline on HIV disclouser conselling for children up to 12 years of age. 2011, Geneva, Switzerlan.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Grossman I. C., Stangl L. A., Global action to reduce HIV stigma and discrimination. Journal of the International AIDS Society 2013.16(2).","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Joint United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS (UNAIDS), Policy brief: Criminalisation of HIV transmission. 2008: Geneva, Switzerlan.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Global Network of People Living with HIV, The global criminalisation scan report. 2010.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1371/journal.pmed.1000097","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses: The PRISMA Statement","abstract":"","id":"PMC2707599","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Public Library of Science","authors":[{"firstname":"David","surname":"Moher","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Alessandro","surname":"Liberati","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jennifer","surname":"Tetzlaff","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Douglas G.","surname":"Altman","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"NULL","surname":"NULL","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]}]},{"doi":"10.1136/sti.2008.033183","date":"2008-11-05","title":"Scaling up stigma? The effects of antiretroviral roll-out on stigma and HIV testing. Early evidence from rural Tanzania","abstract":"Objective:\nTo investigate the interplay between antiretroviral therapy (ART) scale-up, different types of stigma and Voluntary Counselling and Testing (VCT) uptake 2 years after the introduction of free ART in a rural ward of Tanzania.\n\n\nMethods:\nQualitative study using in-depth interviews and group activities with a purposive sample of 91 community leaders, 77 ART clients and 16 health providers.\n\n Data were analysed for recurrent themes using NVIVO-7 software.\n\n\nResults:\nThe complex interplay between ART, stigma and VCT in this setting is characterised by two powerful but opposing dynamics.\n\n The availability of effective treatment has transformed HIV into a manageable condition which is contributing to a reduction in self-stigma and is stimulating VCT uptake.\n\n However, this is counterbalanced by the persistence of blaming attitudes and emergence of new sources of stigma associated with ART provision.\n\n The general perception among community leaders was that as ART users regained health, they increasingly engaged in sexual relations and “spread the disease.\n\n” Fears were exacerbated because they were perceived to be very mobile and difficult to identify physically.\n\n Some leaders suggested giving ART recipients drugs “for impotence,” marking them “with a sign” and putting them “in isolation camps.\n\n” In this context, traditional beliefs about disease aetiology provided a less stigmatised explanation for HIV symptoms contributing to a situation of collective denial.\n\n\nConclusion:\nWhere anticipated stigma prevails, provision of antiretroviral drugs alone is unlikely to have sufficient impact on VCT uptake.\n\n Achieving widespread public health benefits of ART roll-out requires community-level interventions to ensure local acceptability of antiretroviral drugs.\n\n\n","id":"PMC2708343","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"BMJ Publishing Group","authors":[{"firstname":"M","surname":"Roura","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"M","surname":"Urassa","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"J","surname":"Busza","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"D","surname":"Mbata","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"A","surname":"Wringe","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"B","surname":"Zaba","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}],"References depth 2":[{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Policy on AIDS in Africa debated, leaders say prevention should be the focus.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Impact of new developments in antiretroviral treatment on AIDS prevention and care in resource-poor countries.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Community-based approaches to HIV treatment in resource-poor settings.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Reducing heterosexual transmission of HIV in poor countries.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Tackling HIV in resource poor countries.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Readiness for HIV testing among young people in northern Nigeria: the roles of social norm and perceived stigma.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"HIV testing and disclosure: a qualitative analysis of TB patients in South Africa.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Utilization of voluntary counseling and testing services in the Eastern Cape, South Africa.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Understanding and addressing AIDS-related stigma: from anthropological theory to clinical practice in Haiti.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"From treatment to prevention: the interplay between HIV/AIDS treatment availability and HIV/AIDS prevention programming in Khayelitsha, South Africa.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Short-term increase in unsafe sexual behaviour after initiation of HAART in Cote d'Ivoire.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Voluntary counselling and testing: uptake, impact on sexual behaviour, and HIV incidence in a rural Zimbabwean cohort.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Effects of HIV-related stigma among an early sample of patients receiving antiretroviral therapy in Botswana.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Curing stigma:the limits of antiretroviral access.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Mums-to-be shun Malawi HIV tests.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Understanding HIV/AIDS stigma. A theoretical and methodological analysis. HSRC Research Monograph.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"&quot;Face&quot; and the embodiment of stigma in China: the cases of schizophrenia and AIDS.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"HIV and AIDS-related stigma and discrimination: a conceptual framework and implications for action.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Stigma and prejudice: One animal or two?","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Changes in sexual behavior and risk of HIV transmission after antiretroviral therapy and prevention interventions in rural Uganda.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Critical role played by the market council, women and traditional rulers in Lagos state in the promotion of VCT program.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The role of policymakers and community leaders in promoting couples' VCT in Africa.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Involving political leadership to establish and enhance acceptance of voluntary HIV counseling and testing (VCT) networks, Botswana.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Tanzania's low class waking up to voluntary HIV/Aids testing call.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Behaviour change in clients of health centre-based voluntary HIV counselling and testing services in Kenya.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The impact of HIV treatment on risk behaviour in developing countries: a systematic review.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The devil's medicine: Community perception and attitudes towards HIV and antiretroviral treatment in rural Tanzania.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]}]},{"doi":"10.7322/jhgd.150807","date":"1970-01-01","title":"&quot;I don't know if I have the courage&quot;: reproductive choices in times of Zika","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"10.1177/1090198111418634","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Social ecological approaches to individuals and their contexts: twenty years of health education &amp; behavior health promotion interventions","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/j.rhm.2016.11.008","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Inequality, Zika epidemics, and the lack of reproductive rights in Latin America","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"10.1055/s-0038-1648219","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Abortion in cases of Zika virus congenital infection","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Zika virus: knowledge, perceptions, and care practices of infected pregnant women","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"10.1111/risa.13369","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Cross-sectional psychological and demographic associations of Zika knowledge and conspiracy beliefs before and after local Zika transmission","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"10.7189/jogh.07.010305","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Zika: information in the nick of time","abstract":"","id":"PMC5370213","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Edinburgh University Global Health Society","authors":[{"firstname":"Jessica L","surname":"Walker","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"James H","surname":"Conway","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"James E","surname":"Svenson","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}],"References depth 2":[{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Zika virus test limits of mosquito research. Miami Herald. Available: http://www.miamiherald.com/news/local/environment/article94137262.html. Accessed: 29 August 2016.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"How to Protect Yourself Against the Zika Virus. National Geographic. 2016. Available: http://www.nationalgeographic.com/travel/travel-interests/tips-and-advice/how-to-protect-yourself-against-the-zika-virus/. Accessed: 29 August 2016.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Mosquito repellent sales soaring on Zika virus worries. CBS News. Available: http://www.cbsnews.com/news/mosquito-repellent-sales-soaring-on-zika-worries/. Accessed: 29 August 2016.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Zika Cases in Puerto Rico Are Skyrocketing. The New York Times. 2016. Available: http://www.nytimes.com/2016/07/31/health/zika-virus-puerto-rico.html. Accessed: 29 August 2016.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Chikungunya fever cases in the Caribbean &amp; the Americas Update 3. InterHealth Worldwide. 2015. Available: https://www.interhealthworldwide.org/home/health-resources/health-alerts/2015/march/19/chikungunya-fever-cases-in-the-caribbean-the-americas-update-3/. Accessed: 29 August 2016.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"World Health Organization. Dengue and severe dengue factsheet. 2016. Available: http://www.who.int/mediacentre/factsheets/fs117/en/. Accessed: 29 August 2016.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Libre P. No solo del ministerio depende prevenir el zika. [Website in Spanish]. Prensa 2016. Available: http://www.prensalibre.com/guatemala/comunitario/no-solo-del-ministerio-depende-prevenir-el-zika. Accessed: 29 August 2016.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Guatemalteca CR. SC Johnson se une a las acciones de prevencion del Zika en comunidades vulnerables de Guatemala. 2016. Available: http://www.cruzroja.gt/noticias/sc-johnson-se-une-a-las-acciones-de-prevencion-del-zika-en-comunidades-vulnerables-de-guatemala/. Accessed: 29 August 2016.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]}]},{"doi":"10.1016/j.socscimed.2018.07.007","date":"2018-07-04","title":"Legacy and social media respectively influence risk perceptions and protective behaviors during emerging health threats: A multi-wave analysis of communications on Zika virus cases","abstract":"Objective\nBoth legacy media, such as television and newspapers, and online social media are potentially important but incompletely understood sources of information in the face of emerging public health risks.\n\n This research aimed to understand media effects on risk perceptions and behaviors concerning the Zika virus in the United States.\n\n\nMethods\nWe analyzed a multi-wave nationally representative survey (N?=?29,062) and the volume of communications in social and legacy media (i.\n\ne.\n\n, legacy media data from news sources and databases, N?=?2,660 and social media data from Twitter, N?=?1,605,752) in the United States between April and October 2016, dates coinciding with the early cases of local transmission of Zika in the United States (i.\n\ne.\n\n, 25 weeks).\n\n The present study conducted econometric analyses (i.\n\ne.\n\n, Granger causality tests) to assess the associations of legacy and social media coverage with risk perceptions and protective behaviors in the total sample and specific groups separated by pregnancy status/intent, geographic region, income, education level, age, and ethnicity.\n\n\nResults\nThe results from the overall sample suggested that changes in the volume of information in legacy and social media (i.\n\ne.\n\n, Twitter) were followed by different changes in community risk perceptions and protective behaviors.\n\n Specifically, social media coverage correlated with the level of risk perceptions, whereas the legacy media coverage correlated with the level of protective behaviors.\n\n Analyses across different subpopulations, including those of different pregnancy status/intent, geographic Zika risk, income, education level, age, and ethnicity, replicated the social media associations with risk perceptions in most cases.\n\n However, legacy media and protective behaviors were linked only in some vulnerable subpopulations (e.\n\ng.\n\n, the less-educated populations).\n\n\nConclusion\nUnderstanding how media coverage relates to Zika risk perceptions and protective behaviors will help to facilitate effective risk communications by healthcare professionals and providers, particularly when a health risk emerges.\n\n\n","id":"PMC6093206","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Elsevier Ltd.","authors":[{"firstname":"Man-pui Sally","surname":"Chan","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Kenneth","surname":"Winneg","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Lauren","surname":"Hawkins","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Mohsen","surname":"Farhadloo","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Kathleen Hall","surname":"Jamieson","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Dolores","surname":"Albarracín","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}],"References depth 2":[{"doi":"10.1016/j.jesp.2016.06.009","date":"1970-01-01","title":"How people can become persuaded by weak messages presented by credible communicators: not all sleeper effects are created equal","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1080/10810730500526794","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Relationship of internet health information use with patient behavior and self-efficacy: experiences of newly diagnosed cancer patients who contact the national cancer institute's cancer information service","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1177/109019817400200407","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The health belief model and sick role behavior","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1289/ehp.122-A276","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Risk Perception: It’s Personal","abstract":"","id":"PMC4181910","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"NLM-Export","authors":[{"firstname":"Valerie J.","surname":"Brown","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.1080/10410236.2011.569004","date":"1970-01-01","title":"News coverage of health-related issues and its impacts on perceptions: Taiwan as an example","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1371/journal.pone.0014118","date":"2010-11-04","title":"Pandemics in the Age of Twitter: Content Analysis of Tweets during the 2009 H1N1 Outbreak","abstract":"Background\nSurveys are popular methods to measure public perceptions in emergencies but can be costly and time consuming.\n\n We suggest and evaluate a complementary “infoveillance” approach using Twitter during the 2009 H1N1 pandemic.\n\n Our study aimed to: 1) monitor the use of the terms “H1N1” versus “swine flu” over time; 2) conduct a content analysis of “tweets”; and 3) validate Twitter as a real-time content, sentiment, and public attention trend-tracking tool.\n\n\nMethodology/Principal Findings\nBetween May 1 and December 31, 2009, we archived over 2 million Twitter posts containing keywords “swine flu,” “swineflu,” and/or “H1N1.” using Infovigil, an infoveillance system.\n\n Tweets using “H1N1” increased from 8.8% to 40.5% (R\n2?=?.\n\n788; p&lt;.\n\n001), indicating a gradual adoption of World Health Organization-recommended terminology.\n\n 5,395 tweets were randomly selected from 9 days, 4 weeks apart and coded using a tri-axial coding scheme.\n\n To track tweet content and to test the feasibility of automated coding, we created database queries for keywords and correlated these results with manual coding.\n\n Content analysis indicated resource-related posts were most commonly shared (52.6%).\n\n 4.5% of cases were identified as misinformation.\n\n News websites were the most popular sources (23.2%), while government and health agencies were linked only 1.5% of the time.\n\n 7/10 automated queries correlated with manual coding.\n\n Several Twitter activity peaks coincided with major news stories.\n\n Our results correlated well with H1N1 incidence data.\n\n\nConclusions\nThis study illustrates the potential of using social media to conduct “infodemiology” studies for public health.\n\n 2009 H1N1-related tweets were primarily used to disseminate information from credible sources, but were also a source of opinions and experiences.\n\n Tweets can be used for real-time content analysis and knowledge translation research, allowing health authorities to respond to public concerns.\n\n\n","id":"PMC2993925","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Public Library of Science","authors":[{"firstname":"Cynthia","surname":"Chew","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Gunther","surname":"Eysenbach","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Margaret","surname":"Sampson","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Margaret","surname":"Sampson","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1016/j.chb.2017.03.004","date":"2017-03-01","title":"The impact of social media on risk perceptions during the MERS outbreak in South Korea","abstract":"Analyzing nationally representative online panel survey data during the MERS outbreak in South Korea, this study examined the role of social media exposure in shaping public's risk perceptions of MERS.\n The present study also investigated the moderating role of heuristic-systematic processing and self-efficacy in the relationship between social media exposure and risk perceptions.\n The findings of this study showed that social media exposure was positively related to forming risk perceptions.\n Moreover, heuristic-systematic processing and self-efficacy were found to moderate the impact of social media on risk perceptions.\n The interaction effects suggested that the role of social media in increasing risk perceptions of MERS was heighted by heuristic-systematic processing and self-efficacy.\n The results and implications of this study are discussed in greater details.\n","id":"PMC7126097","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Elsevier Ltd.","authors":[{"firstname":"Doo-Hun","surname":"Choi","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Woohyun","surname":"Yoo","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ghee-Young","surname":"Noh","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Keeho","surname":"Park","email":"park.keeho@gmail.com","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.1016/B978-0-12-809269-9.00004-9","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Social Media and Health Crisis Communication During Epidemics","abstract":"Reacting to public health threats as early as possible is crucial in preventing harm from large population groups.\n Surveillance systems support the management and early detection of disease activity.\n Besides traditional systems that rely on reported diagnoses from laboratories, electronic media and discussion groups are increasingly recognized as valuable sources of public health alerts.\n Beyond, crisis communication increasingly relies upon online communication for exchanging information and opinions on a crisis and for supporting the coordination of resources including equipment, personnel, and information during a crisis situation.\n This chapter gives an overview on social media tools and data sources and their content with respect to a use in disease surveillance and health crisis management.\n We further provide an overview on approaches to disease surveillance using the Web and analyze their strengths and weaknesses.\n Ethical and legal aspects to be considered during implementation of web-based disease surveillance will be presented.\n","id":"PMC7149538","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"OECD Publishing","authors":[{"firstname":"K.","surname":"Denecke","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"S.","surname":"Atique","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Shabbir","surname":"Syed-Abdul","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Shabbir","surname":"Syed-Abdul","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Elia","surname":"Gabarron","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Annie Y.S.","surname":"Lau","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.1177/1075547007302211","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Reporting a potential pandemic: a risk-related assessment of avian influenza coverage in U.S. newspapers","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1037/a0015763","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Participation in counseling programs: high-risk participants are reluctant to accept HIV-prevention counseling","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1111/j.1460-2466.2006.00280.x","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The role of theory in developing effective health communications","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1111/j.1559-1816.1995.tb01580.x","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Using an AIDS KABP survey to identify determinants of condom use among sexually active adults from St. Vincent and the Grenadines","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.5365/wpsar.2015.6.1.019","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The use of social media in public health surveillance","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/S0140-6736(03","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Personal view of SARS: confusing definition, confusing diagnoses","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Minimum sample size requirements for seasonal forecasting models","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1111/j.1468-2958.1993.tb00305.x","date":"1970-01-01","title":"A comprehensive model of cancer-related information seeking applied to magazines","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1073/pnas.1708518114","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Distress and rumor exposure on social media during a campus lockdown","abstract":"During active shooter events when danger is imminent and official information is disseminated inconsistently, ambiguity is high.\n In these situations, individuals may seek information from unofficial channels (e.\ng.\n, social media), thereby exposing themselves to unverified information and rumors.\n In a study of students caught in a university-wide lockdown, we found that those who relied on social media for updates reported increased exposure to conflicting information.\n Moreover, those who trusted what they read reported greater distress.\n Then, using a big-data analysis of Twitter data spanning ?5 hours surrounding the event, we demonstrated that rumor transmission tracks with community-level negative emotion during gaps in official communication.\n Officials should monitor social media channels to mitigate the negative impact of rumors during collective traumas.\n","id":"PMC5676907","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"National Academy of Sciences","authors":[{"firstname":"Nickolas M.","surname":"Jones","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Rebecca R.","surname":"Thompson","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Christine","surname":"Dunkel Schetter","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Roxane Cohen","surname":"Silver","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Gauging the impact of growing nonresponse on estimates from a national RDD telephone survey","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1136/bmj.i786","date":"1970-01-01","title":"CDC updates Zika virus guidance to protect pregnant women","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1056/NEJMoa1600651","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Zika virus associated with microcephaly","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.15585/mmwr.mm6529e1","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Update: interim guidance for health care providers caring for pregnant women with possible Zika virus exposure - United States, July 2016","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.3201/eid1002.030750","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Fear and Stigma: The Epidemic within the SARS Outbreak","abstract":"Because of their evolving nature and inherent scientific uncertainties, outbreaks of emerging infectious diseases can be associated with considerable fear in the general public or in specific communities, especially when illness and deaths are substantial.\n Mitigating fear and discrimination directed toward persons infected with, and affected by, infectious disease can be important in controlling transmission.\n Persons who are feared and stigmatized may delay seeking care and remain in the community undetected.\n This article outlines efforts to rapidly assess, monitor, and address fears associated with the 2003 severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) epidemic in the United States.\n Although fear, stigmatization, and discrimination were not widespread in the general public, Asian-American communities were particularly affected.\n","id":"PMC3322940","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Centers for Disease Control and Prevention","authors":[{"firstname":"Bobbie","surname":"Person","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Francisco","surname":"Sy","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Kelly","surname":"Holton","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Barbara","surname":"Govert","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Arthur","surname":"Liang","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"NULL","surname":"NULL","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"NULL","surname":"NULL","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Brenda","surname":"Garza","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Deborah","surname":"Gould","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Meredith","surname":"Hickson","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Marian","surname":"McDonald","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Cecilia","surname":"Meijer","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Julia","surname":"Smith","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Liza","surname":"Veto","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Walter","surname":"Williams","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Laura","surname":"Zauderer","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.1111/j.1559-1816.2009.00574.x","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Use of the risk perception attitude framework for promoting breast cancer prevention","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Effects of fear appeals and physiological arousal upon emotion, attitudes, and cigarette smoking","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1089/cyber.2016.0126","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Social big data analysis of information spread and perceived infection risk during the 2015 Middle East Respiratory Syndrome Outbreak in South Korea. Cyberpsychology","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1258/jrsm.2010.100118","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Swine flu: is panic the key to successful modern health policy?","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1037/a0039729","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Appealing to fear: a meta-analysis of fear appeal effectiveness and theories","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1080/10810730.2015.1064495","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Social media messages in an emerging health crisis: tweeting bird flu","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]}]},{"doi":"10.1016/j.pubrev.2017.02.018","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Public information officers' social media monitoring during the Zika virus crisis, a global health threat surrounded by public uncertainty","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"10.1371/journal.pone.0190482","date":"2017-12-17","title":"Local chatter or international buzz? Language differences on posts about Zika research on Twitter and Facebook","abstract":"Background\nWhen the Zika virus outbreak became a global health emergency in early 2016, the scientific community responded with an increased output of Zika-related research.\n\n This upsurge in research naturally made its way into academic journals along with editorials, news, and reports.\n\n However, it is not yet known how or whether these scholarly communications were distributed to the populations most affected by Zika.\n\n\nMethodology/Principal findings\nTo understand how scientific outputs about Zika reached global and local audiences, we collected Tweets and Facebook posts that linked to Zika-related research in the first six months of 2016. Using a language detection algorithm, we found that up to 90% of Twitter and 76% of Facebook posts are in English.\n\n However, when none of the authors of the scholarly article are from English-speaking countries, posts on both social media are less likely to be in English.\n\n The effect is most pronounced on Facebook, where the likelihood of posting in English is between 11 and 16% lower when none of the authors are from English-speaking countries, as compared to when some or all are.\n\n Similarly, posts about papers written with a Brazilian author are 13% more likely to be in Portuguese on Facebook than when made on Twitter.\n\n\nConclusions/Significance\nOur main conclusion is that scholarly communication on Twitter and Facebook of Zika-related research is dominated by English, despite Brazil being the epicenter of the Zika epidemic.\n\n This result suggests that scholarly findings about the Zika virus are unlikely to be distributed directly to relevant populations through these popular online mediums.\n\n Nevertheless, there are differences between platforms.\n\n Compared to Twitter, scholarly communication on Facebook is more likely to be in the language of an author’s country.\n\n The Zika outbreak provides a useful case-study for understanding how scientific outputs are communicated to relevant populations.\n\n Our results suggest that Facebook is a more effective channel than Twitter, if communication is desired to be in the native language of the affected country.\n\n Further research should explore how local media—such as governmental websites, newspapers and magazines, as well as television and radio—disseminate scholarly publication.\n\n\n","id":"PMC5755770","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Public Library of Science","authors":[{"firstname":"Germana","surname":"Barata","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Kenneth","surname":"Shores","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Juan Pablo","surname":"Alperin","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Frank","surname":"Emmert-Streib","email":"NULL","contributions":"3"},{"firstname":"Frank","surname":"Emmert-Streib","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Frank","surname":"Emmert-Streib","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"NULL","surname":"NULL","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"NULL","surname":"NULL","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}],"References depth 2":[{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"WHO. Zika Situation Report. 10 March 2017. 2017.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Biblioteca Digital Zika. Fontes de Financiamento [Internet]. 2017 [cited 12 Sep 2017]. Available: http://bdz.sbu.unicamp.br/wp/fonte-de-financiamento/","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Zika em Cadernos de Saude Publica: novamente?","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Emerging infectious disease and fast-track publication: when public health gets priority over the formality of scholarly publishing","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"WHO. Zika: strategic response framework &amp; joint operations plan. January-June 2016. 2016.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Wellcome Trust. Sharing data during Zika and other global health emergencies | Wellcome [Internet]. 2016 [cited 17 May 2017]. Available: https://wellcome.ac.uk/news/sharing-data-during-zika-and-other-global-health-emergencies","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Bibliometric Indicators of the Zika Outbreak. Charrel R, editor","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Hernandez D. How Facebook Is Transforming Science and Public Health. In: Wired [Internet]. 2013 [cited 12 Sep 2017]. Available: https://www.wired.com/2013/02/how-facebook-is-changing-science-and-health-care/","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Digital Social Networks and Health","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"What social media offers to health professionals and citizens","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"A new dimension of health care: systematic review of the uses, benefits, and limitations of social media for health communication","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Reuters Institute. Reuters Institute Digital News Report 2016. 2016.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Statista. Number of monthly active Facebook users worldwide as of 2nd quarter 2017 (in millions) [Internet]. 2017 [cited 27 Aug 2017]. Available: https://www.statista.com/statistics/264810/number-of-monthly-active-facebook-users-worldwide/","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Statista. Number of monthly active Twitter users worldwide from 1st quarter 2010 to 2nd quarter 2017 (in millions) [Internet]. 2017 [cited 28 Aug 2017]. Available: https://www.statista.com/statistics/282087/number-of-monthly-active-twitter-users/","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Online collaboration: Scientists and the social network","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"How Social Media Will Change Public Health","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Forecasting Zika Incidence in the 2016 Latin America Outbreak Combining Traditional Disease Surveillance with Search, Social Media, and News Report Data","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"How people react to Zika virus outbreaks on Twitter? A computational content analysis","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"What Are People Tweeting About Zika? An Exploratory Study Concerning Its Symptoms, Treatment, Transmission, and Prevention","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Zika in Twitter: Temporal Variations of Locations, Actors, and Concepts","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Zika virus pandemic:analysis of Facebook as a social media health information platform","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Digital superdiversity in Luxembourg: The role of Luxembourgish in a multilingual Facebook group","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The Arab Spring and Social Media Audiences","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Multilingual use of Twitter: Social networks at the language frontier","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Weerkamp W, Carter S, Tsagkias M. How People use Twitter in Different Languages. WebSci Conference 2011. Koblenz, Germany; 2011.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"PAHO/WHO. Regional Zika Epidemiological Update (Americas) August 25, 2017. 2017.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Dynamic Forecasting of Zika Epidemics Using Google Trends","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Google Trends. Explore:zika [Internet]. 2017 [cited 13 Sep 2017]. Available: https://trends.google.com/trends/explore?date=2010-01-01 2017-08-31&amp;q=zika","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Biomedical Journals and Preprint Services: Friends or Foes?","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Statista. Leading countries based on number of Facebook users as of April 2017 (in millions) [Internet]. 2017 [cited 12 Jul 2017]. Available: https://www.statista.com/statistics/268136/top-15-countries-based-on-number-of-facebook-users/","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Statista. Number of active Twitter users in leading markets as of May 2016 (in millions) [Internet]. 2017 [cited 12 Jul 2017]. Available: https://www.statista.com/statistics/242606/number-of-active-twitter-users-in-selected-countries/","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Brazilian Science between National and Foreign Journals: Methodology for Analyzing the Production and Impact in Emerging Scientific Communities","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"FINEP. Finep vai investir R$ 230 milhoes contra o Zika em 2016 [Internet]. 2016 [cited 14 Sep 2017]. Available: http://www.finep.gov.br/noticias/todas-noticias/5223-finep-vai-investir-r-230-milhoes-contra-o-zika-em-2016","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]}]},{"doi":"10.1353/bhm.2005.0061","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The AIDS pandemic: complacency, injustice, and unfulfilled expectations","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"10.4178/epih.e2016023","date":"2016-05-22","title":"Zika: what we do and do not know based on the experiences of Brazil","abstract":"OBJECTIVES:\nZika virus, which was first discovered in 1947, has become a global threat to human health as it is rapidly spreading through Latin America, the Caribbean, the US and Asia, after causing a large outbreak in the Northeast region of Brazil in 2015. There is ample evidence to support that Zika virus is associated with neurological complications such as microcephaly.\n\n The review aims to provide an overview on the complex issues involved in the emergence of Zika virus’s neurological disorders and to discuss possible explanations of Zika virus introduction and dissemination in Brazil.\n\n We also suggest national and global strategies to adequately respond to the Zika virus emergence.\n\n\nMETHODS:\nWe provide an analytical evaluation of the main issues related to the Zika outbreak in Brazil, based on available scientific literature, including government documents, and on epidemiological information from national surveillance databases.\n\n\nRESULTS:\nThe studies on the clinical manifestations of the Zika virus infection coupled with the epidemiological surveillance information in Brazil have provided significant evidence that the Zika virus is associated with neurological disorders such as microcephaly and Guillain-Barré syndrome.\n\n Based on phylogenetic and molecular analysis, the hypothesis regarding the introduction of Zika virus in the country is that it took place following international events in 2013 and 2014, when many foreign visitors could have brought Zika virus into Brazil.\n\n The immunologically naïve status of populations in the Americas, previous infection with dengue virus, and the increased activity of Aedes aegypti might be the contributing factors for such an outbreak in Brazil.\n\n The Zika virus emergence emphasized the importance of cross-disciplinary perspective.\n\n Besides the scientific-based vector control strategies, it is important to understand the nature of the evolutionary processes involved in the viral evolution in complex ecosystems and to have social and anthropological knowledge on the conditions related to the spread of the disease in order to properly respond to the spread of the Zika virus.\n\n\nCONCLUSIONS:\nThe experiences of Brazil have demonstrated the significance of multi-disciplinary approach in response to new and resurgent arboviral diseases and provided important lessons that could be applied to other developing countries.\n\n\n","id":"PMC4974447","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Korean Society of Epidemiology","authors":[{"firstname":"Cristina","surname":"Possas","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"10.1590/S1020-49892009000300005","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Community beliefs and practices about dengue in Puerto Rico","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"10.1111/j.1365-3156.2005.01452.x","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Effectiveness of dengue control practices in household water containers in Northeast Thailand","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"10.2307/2061435","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Contraceptive sterilization in Puerto Rico","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"10.1080/07341519908581949","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Human Guinea pigs? The history of the early oral contraceptive clinical trials","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Puerto Rico: the covert campaign to sterilize women","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"10.1177/0094306114531284dd","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Social stigma and sexual epidemics: dangerous dynamics","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"10.1038/531009a","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Spectre of Ebola haunts Zika response","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/S0140-6736(14)62364-3","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Ebola in Africa: beyond epidemics, reproductive health in crisis","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"10.1080/01436597.2015.1108827","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Ebola, gender and conspicuously invisible women in global health governance","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"&quot;Maes de anjos&quot; mostra que ha alegria na microcefalia. 2017. http://curiosamente.diariodepernambuco.com.br/project/maes-de-anjos-mostra-que-ha-alegria-na-microcefalia/.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Zika and abortion","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Access to Internet and TV, ownership of cell phone for personal use. (2019). Instituto Brasileiro de Geografia e Estatistica. Retrieved March 16, 2022, from https://www.ibge.gov.br/en/statistics/social/population/18083-annual-dissemination-pnadc3.html?edicao=30538&amp;t=resultados","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/j.ssresearch.2007.09.003","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The effects of religious contextual norms, structural constraints, and personal religiosity on abortion decisions","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1111/soin.12351","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Examining public opinion about abortion: A mixed-methods systematic review of research over the last 15 years","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1056/NEJMc1605389","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Requests for abortion in Latin America related to concern about Zika virus exposure","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Brazil: Zika Epidemic Exposes Rights Problems. (2017). Human Rights Watch. https://www.hrw.org/news/2017/07/12/brazil-zika-epidemic-exposes-rights-problems","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Brazil's Changing Religious Landscape. (2013). Pew Research Center. https://www.pewforum.org/2013/07/18/brazils-changing-religious-landscape/","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Censo. (2010). Numero de catolicos cai e aumenta o de evangelicos, espiritas e sem religiao | Agencia de Noticias. (2012). Agencia de Noticias - IBGE. https://agenciadenoticias.ibge.gov.br/agencia-sala-de-imprensa/2013-agencia-de-noticias/releases/14244-asi-censo-2010-numero-de-catolicos-cai-e-aumenta-o-de-evangelicos-espiritas-e-sem-religiao","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Cohen, M. J., &amp; Evans, C. Q. (2018). Latin American views on abortion in the shadow of the Zika epidemic. Vanderbilt University. https://www.vanderbilt.edu/lapop/insights/ITB033en.pdf","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1055/s-0040-1721856","date":"1970-01-01","title":"COVID-19: Uncertainties from conception to birth","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/S0140-6736(17)31368-5","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Infection-related microcephaly after the 2015 and 2016 Zika virus outbreaks in Brazil: A surveillance-based analysis","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1186/s12889-018-5039-z","date":"2018-01-05","title":"Microcephaly epidemic related to the Zika virus and living conditions in Recife, Northeast Brazil","abstract":"Background\nid='Par1'>Starting in August 2015, there was an increase in the number of cases of neonatal microcephaly in Northeast Brazil.\n\n These findings were identified as being an epidemic of microcephaly related to Zika virus (ZIKV) infection.\n\n The present study aims to analyse the spatial distribution of microcephaly cases in Recife (2015–2016), which is in Northeast Brazil, and its association with the living conditions in this city.\n\n\nMethods\nid='Par2'>This was an ecological study that used data from reported cases of microcephaly from the State Health Department of Pernambuco (August 2015 to July 2016).\n\n The basic spatial unit of analysis was the 94 districts of Recife.\n\n The case definition of microcephaly was: neonates with a head circumference of less than the cut-off point of ?2 standard deviations below the mean value from the established Fenton growth curve.\n\n As an indicator of the living conditions of the 94 districts, the percentage of heads of households with an income of less than twice the minimum wage was calculated.\n\n The districts were classified into four homogeneous strata using the K-means clustering algorithm.\n\n We plotted the locations of each microcephaly case over a layer of living conditions.\n\n\nResults\nid='Par3'>During the study period, 347 microcephaly cases were reported, of which 142 (40.9%) fulfilled the definition of a microcephaly case.\n\n Stratification of the 94 districts resulted in the identification of four strata.\n\n The highest stratum in relation to the living conditions presented the lowest prevalence rate of microcephaly, and the overall difference between this rate and the rates of the other strata was statistically significant.\n\n The results of the Kruskal-Wallis test demonstrated that there was a strong association between a higher prevalence of microcephaly and poor living conditions.\n\n After the first 6 months of the study period, there were no microcephaly cases recorded within the population living in the richest socio-economic strata.\n\n\nConclusion\nid='Par4'>This study showed that those residing in areas with precarious living conditions had a higher prevalence of microcephaly compared with populations with better living conditions.\n\n\n","id":"PMC5767029","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"BioMed Central","authors":[{"firstname":"Wayner Vieira de","surname":"Souza","email":"wayner@cpqam.fiocruz.br","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Maria de Fátima Pessoa Militão de","surname":"Albuquerque","email":"militaofatima@gmail.com","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Enrique","surname":"Vazquez","email":"evazquez@paho.org","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Luciana Caroline Albuquerque","surname":"Bezerra","email":"lua_cad@yahoo.com.br","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Antonio da Cruz Gouveia","surname":"Mendes","email":"amendes@cpqam.fiocruz.br","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Tereza Maciel","surname":"Lyra","email":"terezalyra@cpqam.fiocruz.br","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Thalia Velho Barreto de","surname":"Araujo","email":"thalia.velho.barreto@gmail.com","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"André Luiz Sá de","surname":"Oliveira","email":"andre.sa@cpqam.fiocruz.br","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Maria Cynthia","surname":"Braga","email":"cynthiabraga27@gmail.com","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ricardo Arraes de Alencar","surname":"Ximenes","email":"raaximenes@uol.com.br","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Demócrito de Barros","surname":"Miranda-Filho","email":"demofilho@gmail.com","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Amanda Priscila de Santana","surname":"Cabral Silva","email":"amandapscabral@gmail.com","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Laura","surname":"Rodrigues","email":"laura.Rodrigues@lshtm.ac.uk","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Celina Maria Turchi","surname":"Martelli","email":"turchicm@gmail.com","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.2307/2290268","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Calibration estimators in survey sampling","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1590/S1413-81232010000700002","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Aborto no Brasil: Uma pesquisa domiciliar com tecnica de urna","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1590/S1413-81232012000700002","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Itinerarios e metodos do aborto ilegal em cinco capitais brasileiras","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1136/jfprhc-2016-101678","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Brazilian women avoiding pregnancy during Zika epidemic","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/S0968-8080(12)40657-7","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Equity and women's health services for contraception, abortion and childbirth in Brazil","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1002/ijgo.13044","date":"1970-01-01","title":"How do mothers feel? Life with children with congenital Zika syndrome","abstract":"Objective\nTo describe the repercussions, from the perspectives of caregiver mothers, of confirmed congenital Zika syndrome (CZS) in their offspring.\n\n\nMethods\nA descriptive?exploratory study with a qualitative approach was carried out in the state of Espírito Santo in southeastern Brazil, with 25 women who had a child diagnosed with CZS.\n\n\nResults\nEmerging themes from the content analysis were grouped into two categories: (1) inequalities experienced by mothers, including social inequality, poverty, and gender inequality; (2) the impact of a child with CZS on mothering, including feelings at the time of diagnosis, maternal isolation and mental health, experiences of stigma and prejudice, and exhausting itineraries searching for therapeutic care.\n\n\nConclusion\nThe repercussions of CZS were a huge burden on already vulnerable women, and social inequalities and poverty were important markers in the mothers’ reports.\n\n Many of the families affected by CZS already lived in precarious social conditions and these conditions were exacerbated further.\n\n Robust public and social policies to support these mothers need effective implementation given that babies born with CZS need long?term care and support.\n\n\n","id":"PMC7065199","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"John Wiley and Sons Inc.","authors":[{"firstname":"Paula S.S.","surname":"Freitas","email":"paulassfreitas@gmail.com","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Gabriella B.","surname":"Soares","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Helaine J.S.","surname":"Mocelin","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Larissa C.X.L.","surname":"Lamonato","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Carolina M.M.","surname":"Sales","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ana R.","surname":"Linde?Arias","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Elda C.A.","surname":"Bussinger","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ethel L.N.","surname":"Maciel","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Frohwirth, L., Coleman, M., &amp; Moore, A. M. (2018). Managing religion and morality within the abortion experience: Qualitative interviews with women obtaining abortions in the U.S. World Medical &amp; Health Policy, 10(4), 381-400. 10.1002/wmh3.289","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Goldberg, J. (2012). Brazil Supreme Court allows abortion in cases of a severe fetal condition. Center for Reproductive Rights. https://reproductiverights.org/brazil-supreme-court-allows-abortion-in-cases-of-a-severe-fetal-condition/","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/j.soscij.2003.10.008","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Social and cultural determinants of attitudes toward abortion: A test of Reiss' hypotheses","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/j.ssresearch.2014.06.001","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Abortion attitudes in context: A multidimensional vignette approach","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1186/s12874-017-0442-1","date":"2017-11-24","title":"When and how should multiple imputation be used for handling missing data in randomised clinical trials – a practical guide with flowcharts","abstract":"Background\nid='Par1'>Missing data may seriously compromise inferences from randomised clinical trials, especially if missing data are not handled appropriately.\n\n The potential bias due to missing data depends on the mechanism causing the data to be missing, and the analytical methods applied to amend the missingness.\n\n Therefore, the analysis of trial data with missing values requires careful planning and attention.\n\n\nMethods\nid='Par2'>The authors had several meetings and discussions considering optimal ways of handling missing data to minimise the bias potential.\n\n We also searched PubMed (key words: missing data; randomi*; statistical analysis) and reference lists of known studies for papers (theoretical papers; empirical studies; simulation studies; etc.\n\n) on how to deal with missing data when analysing randomised clinical trials.\n\n\nResults\nid='Par3'>Handling missing data is an important, yet difficult and complex task when analysing results of randomised clinical trials.\n\n We consider how to optimise the handling of missing data during the planning stage of a randomised clinical trial and recommend analytical approaches which may prevent bias caused by unavoidable missing data.\n\n We consider the strengths and limitations of using of best-worst and worst-best sensitivity analyses, multiple imputation, and full information maximum likelihood.\n\n We also present practical flowcharts on how to deal with missing data and an overview of the steps that always need to be considered during the analysis stage of a trial.\n\n\nConclusions\nid='Par4'>We present a practical guide and flowcharts describing when and how multiple imputation should be used to handle missing data in randomised clinical.\n\n\nElectronic supplementary material\nThe online version of this article (10.1186/s12874-017-0442-1) contains supplementary material, which is available to authorized users.\n\n\n","id":"PMC5717805","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"BioMed Central","authors":[{"firstname":"Janus Christian","surname":"Jakobsen","email":"jcj@ctu.dk","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Christian","surname":"Gluud","email":"cgluud@ctu.dk","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jørn","surname":"Wetterslev","email":"wetterslev@ctu.dk","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Per","surname":"Winkel","email":"pwinkel@ctu.dk","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.1177/1536504217696062","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Could there be a silver lining to Zika?","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Linde, A. R., &amp; Siqueira, C. E. (2018). Women's lives in times of Zika: Mosquito-controlled lives? Cadernos de Saude Publica, 34. 10.1590/0102-311X00178917","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1111/padr.12157","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The emergence of bimodal fertility profiles in Latin America","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Marteleto, L. J., &amp; Dondero, M. (2021). Navigating women's reproductive health and childbearing during public health crises: Covid-19 and Zika in Brazil. World Development, 139, 105305. 10.1016/j.worlddev.2020.105305","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1007/s13524-020-00871-x","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Live births and fertility amid the Zika epidemic in Brazil","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1111/padr.12074","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Women's reproductive intentions and behaviors during the Zika epidemic in Brazil","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1002/jmv.25959","date":"2020-04-27","title":"COVID?19 in pregnancy: Risk of adverse neonatal outcomes","abstract":"","id":"PMC7267544","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"John Wiley and Sons Inc.","authors":[{"firstname":"Aman","surname":"Mehan","email":"ahm41@cam.ac.uk","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ashwin","surname":"Venkatesh","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Ashwin","surname":"Venkatesh","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Milind","surname":"Girish","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Milind","surname":"Girish","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1002/ijgo.13049","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Analysis of the spatial distribution of cases of Zika virus infection and congenital Zika virus syndrome in a state in the southeastern region of Brazil: Sociodemographic factors and implications for public health","abstract":"Objective\nTo perform spatial distribution analysis of reported cases of Zika virus and congenital Zika syndrome (CZS) in the state of Espírito Santo, Brazil, by neighborhood, and relate the results to sociodemographic indicators and implications for the health process.\n\n\nMethods\nAn ecological study using data from the 2016 National Notifiable Diseases Surveillance System, epidemiological records, and information on neighborhoods of families confirmed with CZS from qualitative field research.\n\n\nResults\nSociodemographic indicators were analyzed in three distinct groups: general population with Zika virus, pregnant women with Zika virus, and cases of CZS visited.\n\n For the three groups, average literacy rates were 71.1%, 71.0%, and 68.3%; the average income per minimum wage was 1.4, 1.1, and 1.4; sanitary sewage coverage was 75.6%, 76.1%, and 71.4%; garbage coverage was 90.8%, 91.2%, and 89.2%; and water supply was 93.8%, 94.1% and 93.8%, respectively.\n\n Socioeconomic indicators showed no significant differences between groups, although they were above the national average.\n\n A nonsignificant variation of 68.3%–71.1% was seen in the average literacy level above 15 years of age.\n\n\nConclusion\nSocioeconomic and demographic indicators of cases of Zika virus infection and CZS may indicate that the outbreak had different impacts according to class, social group, or gender, reflecting the persistence and social geography of inequality in Brazil.\n\n\n","id":"PMC7065179","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"John Wiley and Sons Inc.","authors":[{"firstname":"Helaine J.S.","surname":"Mocelin","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Rafael C.","surname":"Catão","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Paula S.S.","surname":"Freitas","email":"paulassfreitas@gmail.com","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Thiago N.","surname":"Prado","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Adelmo I.","surname":"Bertolde","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Marcia C.","surname":"Castro","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ethel L.N.","surname":"Maciel","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Morgan, M. (2017). Falling inequality beneath extreme and persistent concentration: New evidence for Brazil combining national accounts, surveys and fiscal data, 2001-2015. WID.World Working Paper Series, 12, 78.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Mortality Analyses. (2022). Johns Hopkins Coronavirus Resource Center. https://coronavirus.jhu.edu/data/mortality","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"New COVID-19 Cases Worldwide. (2021). Johns Hopkins Coronavirus Resource Center. https://coronavirus.jhu.edu/data/new-cases","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1001/jama.1966.03100260078022","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Changing attitudes toward therapeutic abortion","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1111/j.1468-5906.2011.01602.x","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Religion and attitudes toward abortion and abortion policy in Brazil","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.4324/9781315308678","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Health policy in a time of crisis: Abortion, austerity, and access","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"PNAD Education. (2019). More than half of the persons aged 25 and over did not finish high school. (2020). Agencia IBE. https://agenciadenoticias.ibge.gov.br/en/agencia-press-room/2185-news-agency/releases-en/28289-pnad-education-2019-more-than-half-of-the-persons-aged-25-and-over-did-not-finish-high-school","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1093/swr/32.3.171","date":"1970-01-01","title":"A simplified framework for using multiple imputation in social work research","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1093/swr/30.1.19","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Imputing missing data: A comparison of methods for social work researchers","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/S1473-3099(20)30175-4","date":"1970-01-01","title":"COVID-19 in pregnant women","abstract":"","id":"PMC7270341","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Elsevier Ltd.","authors":[{"firstname":"Manuel B","surname":"Schmid","email":"manuel.schmid@usz.ch","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jehudith","surname":"Fontijn","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Nicole","surname":"Ochsenbein-Kölble","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Christoph","surname":"Berger","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Dirk","surname":"Bassler","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.1590/1806-9304202100s100014","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Maternal mortality by COVID-19 in Brazil","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.2105/AJPH.2017.303924","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Zika and reproductive rights in Brazil: Challenge to the right to health","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Wenham, C., Abagaro, C., Arevalo, A., Coast, E., Correa, S., Cuellar, K., Leone, T., &amp; Valongueiro, S. (2021). Analyzing the intersection between health emergencies and abortion during Zika in Brazil, El Salvador and Colombia. Social Science &amp; Medicine, 270, 113671. 10.1016/j.socscimed.2021.113671","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1177/1536867X1201200209","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Using the margins command to estimate and interpret adjusted predictions and marginal effects","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Yang, Z., Wang, M., Zhu, Z., &amp; Liu, Y. (2020). Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) and pregnancy: A systematic review. The European Association of Perinatal Medicine, the Federation of Asia and Oceania Perinatal Societies, the International Society of Perinatal Obstetricians, 1-4. 10.1080/14767058.2020.1759541","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Zanotti, L. (2020). From the time of rights to the time of intolerance. The neoconservative movement and the impact of the Bolsonaro government. Challenges for Brazilian Anthropology. Vibrant: Brazilian Virtual Anthropology, 17, 17458. 10.1590/1809-43412020v17d458","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Zika Virus. (2014). CDC. https://www.cdc.gov/zika/healtheffects/birth_defects.html","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Zilla, C. (2020). Evangelicals and politics in Brazil: The relevance of religious change in Latin America. In German Institute for International and Security Affairs. SWP Research Paper 1. 10.18449/2020RP01","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]}]},{"doi":"10.1016/S0140-6736(17)31010-3","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Contraception, safe abortion and the Zika response","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"10.1097/COH.0000000000000381","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The role of activists in access to HIV and tuberculosis treatment and prevention","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"10.1590/S1518-8787.2017051000074","date":"2016-09-01","title":"Use of and access to health services in Brazil, 2013 National Health Survey","abstract":"OBJECTIVE\n To analyze the use of health services in the Brazilian population by sociodemographic factors, according to data from the 2013 Brazilian National Health Survey.\n\n\nMETHODS\n The study analyzed data from 205,000 Brazilian citizens in all age groups who participated in the Brazilian National Health Survey, a cross-sectional study carried out in 2013. Prevalence and confidence intervals were estimated for indicators related to access to and use of health services according to age group, level of education of head of household, and Brazilian macroregions.\n\n\nRESULTS\n Among individuals who sought health services in the two weeks prior to the survey, 95.3% (95%CI 94.9–95.8) received care in their first visit.\n\n Percentages were higher in the following groups: 60 years of age and over; head of household with complete tertiary education; living in the South and Southeast regions.\n\n In addition, 82.5% (95%CI 81.2–83.7) of individuals who received health care and prescriptions were able to obtain all the necessary medicines, 1/3 of them from SUS.\n\n Less than half the Brazilian population (44.4%; 95%CI 43.8–45.1) visited a dentist in the 12 months prior to the survey, with smaller percentages among the following groups: 60 years of age or older; head of household with no education or up to incomplete elementary; living in the North region of Brazil.\n\n\nCONCLUSIONS\n People living in the South and Southeast regions still have greater access to health services, as do those whose head of household has a higher level of education.\n\n The (re)formulation of health policies to reduce disparities should consider differences encountered between regions and social levels.\n\n\n","id":"PMC5676359","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Faculdade de Saúde Pública da Universidade de São Paulo","authors":[{"firstname":"Sheila Rizzato","surname":"Stopa","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Deborah Carvalho","surname":"Malta","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Camila Nascimento","surname":"Monteiro","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Célia Landmann","surname":"Szwarcwald","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Moisés","surname":"Goldbaum","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Chester Luiz Galvão","surname":"Cesar","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}],"References depth 2":[{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Acesso e uso de servicos de saude: consideracoes sobre os resultados da Pesquisa de Condicoes de Vida 2006","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Uma revisao sobre os conceitos de acesso e utilizacao de servicos de saude","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Os Suplementos Saude na Pesquisa Nacional por Amostra de Domicilios (PNAD) no Brasil","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Pesquisa Nacional de Saude no Brasil: concepcao e metodologia de aplicacao","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Desigualdades geograficas e sociais no acesso aos servicos de saude no Brasil: 1998 e 2003","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Condicoes de saude, acesso a servicos e fontes de pagamento, segundo inqueritos domiciliares","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Inquerito domiciliar como instrumento de avaliacao de servicos de saude: um estudo de caso na regiao sudoeste da area metropolitana de Sao Paulo, 1989-1990","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"A situacao socioeconomica afeta igualmente a saude de idosos e adultos mais jovens no Brasil? Um estudo utilizando dados da Pesquisa Nacional por Amostra de Domicilios - PNAD/98","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Analise das desigualdades regionais na oferta de servicos e saude no Brasil: pesquisa da assistencia medico-sanitaria, 1992 e 1999","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Desenvolvimento socioeconomico de um pais periferico da America Latina: Brasil","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Desigualdades no uso e acesso aos servicos de saude entre idosos do municipio de Sao Paulo","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Condicoes de saude, acesso a servicos e fontes de pagamento, segundo inqueritos domiciliares","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Tendencias das desigualdades sociais e demograficas na prevalencia de doencas cronicas no Brasil, PNAD: 2003-2008","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Acesso e uso de servicos de saude pelos brasileiros","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Comparacao dos fatores de risco e protecao de doencas cronicas na populacao com e sem planos de saude nas capitais brasileiras, 2011","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Diferencas regionais no acesso a cirurgia cardiovascular no Brasil, 2002-2010","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Oral health policies in Brazil","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Perdas dentarias e fatores sociais, demograficos e de servicos associados em adultos brasileiros: uma analise dos dados do Estudo Epidemiologico Nacional (Projeto SB Brasil 2002-2003)","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Prevalencia e fatores associados ao acesso a medicamentos pela populacao idosa em uma capital do sul do Brasil: um estudo de base populacional","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Conhecimento e utilizacao do Programa Farmacia Popular do Brasil: estudo de base populacional no municipio de Campinas-SP","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Fontes de obtencao de medicamentos para tratamento de hipertensao arterial no Brasil: analise da Pesquisa Nacional de Saude, 2013","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Confiabilidade das informacoes obtidas de informante secundario em inqueritos de saude","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Rodriguez M, Lord A, Sanabia CC, Silverio A, Chuang M, Dolan SM. Understanding Zika virus as an STI: findings from a qualitative study of pregnant women in the Bronx. Sex Transm Infect. 2019. 10.1136/sextrans-2019-054093.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Addressing Ebola-related stigma: lessons learned from HIV/AIDS","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Morbidity in historical plague epidemics","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Mortality, morbidity, and microbiology of endemic cholera among hospitalized patients in Dhaka, Bangladesh","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Illness, stigma, and AIDS","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Interventions to address the stigma associated with leprosy: a perspective on the issues","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Stigma, social risk, and health policy: public attitudes toward HIV surveillance policies and the social construction of illness","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"HIV interventions to reduce HIV/AIDS stigma: a systematic review","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Cultural contexts of Ebola in northern Uganda","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Stigma deviance and social control: some conceptual issues","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Social stigma","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Conceptualizing stigma","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"HIV and AIDS-related stigma and discrimination: a conceptual framework and implications for action","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Internalized stigma, discrimination, and depression among men and women living with HIV/AIDS in Cape Town, South Africa","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Impact of HIV-related stigma on health behaviors and psychological adjustment among HIV-positive men and women","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Structural violence and clinical medicine","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Stigma in the HIV/AIDS epidemic: a review of the literature and recommendations for the way forward","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Understanding and addressing AIDS-related stigma: from anthropological theory to clinical practice in Haiti","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Prevalence and drivers of HIV stigma among health providers in urban India: implications for interventions","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Experiences of stigma in healthcare settings among adults living with HIV in the Islamic Republic of Iran","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Reducing HIV-related stigma: lessons learned from Horizons research and programs","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"A model for understanding the relationship between stigma and healthcare-seeking behaviour among people living with HIV/AIDS in sub-Saharan Africa","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Stigma related to HIV and AIDS as a barrier to accessing health care in Thailand: a review of recent literature","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Barriers and facilitators to engagement and retention in care among transgender women living with human immunodeficiency virus","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Impact of HIV-related stigma on treatment adherence: systematic review and meta-synthesis","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Governing epidemics in an age of complexity: narratives, politics and pathways to sustainability","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Epidemics and related cultural factors for Ebola hemorrhagic fever in Gabon","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"&quot;A time of fear&quot;: local, national, and international responses to a large Ebola outbreak in Uganda","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"After losing parents to Ebola, orphans face stigma","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Ebola: a failure of international collective action","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Organization of patient care during the Ebola hemorrhagic fever epidemic in Kikwit, Democratic Republic of the Congo, 1995","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1136/medethics-2014-102434","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Ebola virus outbreak in Western Africa and the ethical obligation to provide care","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Sources of stigma associated with women with HIV","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Perception of HIV/AIDS among the Igbo of Anambra State, Nigeria","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Continuities and discontinuities in the experiences of felt and enacted stigma among women with HIV/AIDS","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Knowledge and attitude of youth (ages 15-25 years) to HIV/AIDS and to routine HIV screening","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Ebola viral disease outbreak - West Africa, 2014","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Transmission of Ebola hemorrhagic fever: a study of risk factors in family members, Kikwit, Democratic Republic of the Congo, 1995","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Popular opinion leader intervention for HIV stigma reduction in health care settings","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Results of the NIMH collaborative HIV/STD prevention trial of a community popular opinion leader intervention","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"A community participation intervention to reduce HIV/AIDS stigma, Nakhon Ratchasima province, northeast Thailand","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Perceptions of and responses to stigma","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Positive stigma: examining resilience and empowerment in overcoming stigma","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Interventions to reduce HIV/AIDS stigma: what have we learned?","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Experiences of people living with HIV and people living close to them of a comprehensive HIV stigma reduction community intervention in an urban and a rural setting","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]}]}]},{"doi":"10.1186/s12905-020-01066-7","date":"2020-09-01","title":"Contraception and post abortion services: qualitative analysis of users’ perspectives and experiences following Zika epidemic in Honduras","abstract":"Background\nid='Par1'>Zika virus (ZIKV) infection during pregnancy has severe consequences on the new-born.\n\n The World Health Organization declared the Zika outbreak to be a Public Health Emergency of International Concern (PHEIC) in 2016. Health facilities in the regions most affected by Zika lacked the capacity to respond to the increased demand for contraception.\n\n The objectives were to explore healthcare users’ perceptions regarding contraception, Zika prevention during pregnancy and post-abortion care (PAC) services in the context of a Zika outbreak in Tegucigalpa, Honduras, and to follow these services over time.\n\n\nMethods\nid='Par2'>This study was part of a broader implementation research study.\n\n We used qualitative research consistent with grounded theory approach.\n\n Semi-structured interviews and focus groups were performed with women and their partners who used contraceptive services or received PAC services.\n\n Data were collected in two stages from December 2017 to July 2018. Themes explored included contraception, Zika and PAC services.\n\n\nResults\nid='Par3'>Participants had positive attitude towards the use of contraceptive methods and demanded more information on safety, efficacy and on side effects.\n\n Health care services were inconsistent in the provision of information on Zika and contraception services.\n\n ZIKV vector transmission was known but fewer participants were aware of risk of sexual transmission of Zika.\n\n Barriers to access healthcare services included contraceptive and PAC services included distance to healthcare facilities, disorganized admission process, long waiting times and out-of-pocket expenditure to purchase medicines.\n\n Furthermore, poor quality, mistreatment and abuse of women seeking PAC was prevalent.\n\n Some positive changes were noted over time, such as improvements in infrastructure including improved privacy and cleanliness, removal of fees, requisite to bring clean water to hospital.\n\n\nConclusions\nid='Par4'>Our results highlight the challenges and areas for improvement in policy and practice related to contraceptive services and PAC in the context of ZIKV infection.\n\n Public policies to prevent epidemics should focus more on providing proper sanitation; removing barriers to access and use of effective contraception as human rights priority.\n\n Zika epidemic has highlighted weaknesses in health systems that obstruct access to and use of sexual and reproductive health services.\n\n\n","id":"PMC7488691","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"BioMed Central","authors":[{"firstname":"Maria","surname":"Belizan","email":"mbelizan@iecs.org.ar","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":" Edna","surname":"Maradiaga","email":"edjamar3006@yahoo.com","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":" Javier","surname":"Roberti","email":"jroberti@iecs.org.ar","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":" Maricela","surname":"Casco-Aguilar","email":"marykasco@yahoo.com","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":" Alison F.","surname":"Ortez","email":"alison_fabiola@yahoo.es","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":" Juan C.","surname":"Avila-Flores","email":"javilaflores3@gmail.com","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":" Gloria","surname":"González","email":"marilyntoin@yahoo.com","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":" Carolina","surname":"Bustillo","email":"mcbu1502@yahoo.com","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":" Alejandra","surname":"Calderón","email":"lilianalecalderon@gmail.com","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":" Harry","surname":"Bock","email":"hbockme@hotmail.com","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":" María L.","surname":"Cafferata","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":" Adriano B.","surname":"Tavares","email":"adriano.b.tavares@gmail.com","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":" Jackeline","surname":"Alger","email":"jackelinealger@gmail.com","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":" Moazzam","surname":"Ali","email":"alimoa@who.int","contributions":"1"}],"Full Text":"Contraception and post abortion services: qualitative analysis of users' perspectives and experiences following Zika epidemic in Honduras\nBackground\nZika virus (ZIKV) infection during pregnancy has severe consequences on the new-born. The World Health Organization declared the Zika outbreak to be a Public Health Emergency of International Concern (PHEIC) in 2016. Health facilities in the regions most affected by Zika lacked the capacity to respond to the increased demand for contraception. The objectives were to explore healthcare users' perceptions regarding contraception, Zika prevention during pregnancy and post-abortion care (PAC) services in the context of a Zika outbreak in Tegucigalpa, Honduras, and to follow these services over time.\nMethods\nThis study was part of a broader implementation research study. We used qualitative research consistent with grounded theory approach. Semi-structured interviews and focus groups were performed with women and their partners who used contraceptive services or received PAC services. Data were collected in two stages from December 2017 to July 2018. Themes explored included contraception, Zika and PAC services.\nResults\nParticipants had positive attitude towards the use of contraceptive methods and demanded more information on safety, efficacy and on side effects. Health care services were inconsistent in the provision of information on Zika and contraception services. ZIKV vector transmission was known but fewer participants were aware of risk of sexual transmission of Zika. Barriers to access healthcare services included contraceptive and PAC services included distance to healthcare facilities, disorganized admission process, long waiting times and out-of-pocket expenditure to purchase medicines. Furthermore, poor quality, mistreatment and abuse of women seeking PAC was prevalent. Some positive changes were noted over time, such as improvements in infrastructure including improved privacy and cleanliness, removal of fees, requisite to bring clean water to hospital.\nConclusions\nOur results highlight the challenges and areas for improvement in policy and practice related to contraceptive services and PAC in the context of ZIKV infection. Public policies to prevent epidemics should focus more on providing proper sanitation; removing barriers to access and use of effective contraception as human rights priority. Zika epidemic has highlighted weaknesses in health systems that obstruct access to and use of sexual and reproductive health services.\nThe study results call for increased efforts to improve access, especially for women of low socio-economic status and intervene at different levels to eradicate discrimination and improve equity in the provision of health care. Qualitative methods can capture the community perspectives and can provide useful information to develop interventions to improve services.\nBackground\nThe Zika virus can be passed from a pregnant woman to her fetus and cause microcephaly as well as other severe brain anomalies, and has also been linked to problems such as defects of the eye and pregnancy loss. The World Health Organization recommended that risk of infection to women of reproductive age should be minimized in affected countries, and that the capacity for surveillance should be strengthened. Moreover, health ministries in Latin American countries had recommended that women postpone or avoid pregnancy, and WHO interim recommendations to prevent ZIKV infection in affected areas included the provision of resources, emergency contraceptive services and counselling.\nHealth facilities in the regions most affected by Zika lack the capacity to respond to the increased demand for contraception. Zika has brought the issue into sharp focus and highlights weaknesses in health systems that make it difficult for women to access and use contraception if they want to delay births in the context of widespread Zika infection. In the Latin America and Caribbean region, an estimated 23 million women are not using contraception who wish to avoid pregnancy and around 10% of all maternal deaths are due to unsafe abortion. Due to severely restrictive abortion laws, many women may be forced to choose clandestine and unsafe abortion methods. Prevention of unintended pregnancy, thus is a primary strategy to reduce adverse pregnancy and birth outcomes related to Zika virus infection. The challenge is that continuation rates for contraception are low in Latin America and Caribbean. As contraception and safe abortion are contested issues in most of the countries affected by Zika, it is important that post-abortion care (PAC) is provided. For women who want to avoid pregnancy, access to and use of contraceptive and PAC services is essential.\nThis study is part of broader implementation research study that sought to contribute to the improvement of sexual and reproductive healthcare in Tegucigalpa, Honduras after the zika outbreak in 2016. The aim of the study was to explore and describe users' knowledge, perceptions and experiences regarding: Zika prevention during pregnancy, contraception and post-abortion services. As the implementation research made changes during the course of this study, we also aimed to describe any changes in over time.\nMethods\nStudy design\nThe research used a qualitative approach consistent with the grounded theory approach, and following COREQ guidelines to report qualitative research.\nStudy timeline and recommendations\nThis qualitative study is part of a broader implementation research study conducted by World Health Organization (WHO) from September 2017 to August 2018. The protocol of the study was also published. This implementation research study included quantitative and qualitative evaluations and aimed to identify areas for improvement of health care provision for contraception and PAC in Honduras and to implement those improvements, in the context of Zika epidemic in the Americas. As described in Fig. 1, data collection took place in December 2017, April and July 2018. After each evaluation, partial findings were presented to stakeholders including Honduras Secretary of Health, Central District Metropolitan Health Region, the participating health facilities, Honduran Society for Gynaecology and Obstetrics, and World Health Organization/Pan-American Health Organization (WHO/PAHO). Following deliberations, recommendation of interventions for improvement were provided. The results of the quantitative component of this study are reported separately. \nSetting\nThe study was performed in two public health care facilities in Tegucigalpa, Honduras, corresponding to the Central District Metropolitan Health Region. This 1515 Km2 area has a population of approximately 1.2 million. One of the facilities was a tertiary national general hospital (henceforth Hospital), which provides clinical services, including contraception and PAC; at the time when the study was conducted, it was the only hospital that provided manual vacuum aspiration (MVA) and curettage procedures in Tegucigalpa. -Honduras has only two hospitals with the mentioned characteristics-. The second selected facility was the largest of a total of the 60 health care centres (henceforth Clinic) in Tegucigalpa. The clinic has more than 13,000 consultations per month and provides tertiary health care services, including contraception services.\nParticipants and data collection\nWe performed individual semi-structured interviews and focus groups with quotes of informants including female users of contraception or attending PAC services, male users of health care services, and men who were accompanying partners and relatives with women seeking PAC.\nWe used a typical case purposive sample to cover three quotes of informants: a) women &gt;=18 years, users of contraception services; b) men &gt;=18 years, users of contraception services,) b) women &gt;=18 years receiving PAC; c) men &gt;=18 years, accompanying partners and relatives at PAC services. While a minimum number of 5 interviews and 2 focus groups per target group was decided in advance, data collection continued in order to achieve the saturation criteria.\nQuestionnaires were developed based on the study objectives and included the following themes: (1) Contraception: knowledge and attitude regarding contraception use, opinions about quality of contraception services; (2) Zika: knowledge about transmission of disease, risks and consequences during pregnancy, and practices for prevention strategies during pregnancy; and (3) PAC: access and use, users' experiences, opinions about quality of care.\nThe questionnaire and interview guide were piloted and adapted to local context (See additional files). The interviews and focus groups guides developed for this study are provided as Additional File 1. Data were collected in three rounds. During the first round in December 2017, the three themes were explored (Contraception, Zika and PAC). The second round in April 2018 was used to obtain a deeper understanding of preliminary findings of the first round regarding PAC. In round three in July 2018, all themes explored in previous rounds were included in order to identify any change. Interviews and focus groups guides were adapted to each round.\nFemale trained data collectors interviewed women and male trained data collectors interviewed men. Individual interviews lasted between 30 and 50 min whereas focus groups took about 60 to 110 min. All participants gave their written informed consent respectively. All interviews and focus groups were audiotaped and transcribed verbatim.\nEthical aspects\nFollowing approval by WHO scientific and ethics review, the protocol was reviewed and approved by the IRB at the Faculty of Medical Sciences of the Universidad Nacional Autonoma de Honduras (UNAH), Tegucigalpa, Honduras (Reference Number: 201750). All participants were informed about the objectives of the study and their rights, and were provided a written informed consent. Study forms were numbered, and no individual personal information or identifiers was entered in the audiotape and written transcripts.\nData analysis\nThe written transcripts were entered into ATLAS.ti version 8.1 (Scientific Software Development GmbH) qualitative data management software. Using adapted grounded theory and thematic analysis, transcripts were coded line by line, and three investigators inductively identified concepts. Then, matrices were developed to facilitate comparisons across the transcribed materials and to retain the context of the data (i.e. clinic, and type of informant). To ensure that coding captured all relevant issues and reflected the primary data, thematic analysis was shared with all the data collectors to discuss the findings. Finally, data was abstracted and interpreted. Illustrative quotes were included. The description of the findings is organized in sections to address contraception, Zika and PAC services. We included examples indicating between parentheses the technique used (Focus Group or Interviews), sex of informant (woman or man) and the facility (Hospital or Clinic) where interviews took place.\nResults\nPopulation\nDuring the first stage (first two rounds of interviews) five focus groups and 36 individual interviews were performed. In the second stage (round three), five focus groups and 21 individual interviews were performed.\nCharacteristics of the participants interviewed and focus groups, Tegucigalpa, Honduras\nCharacteristic	Composition of study population(n = 136)	 	Gender, n (%)	 	 Female	85 (62.5)	 	 Male	51 (37.5)	 	Age, median (range)	 	Women	26 (19-44)	 	Men	29 (19-59)	 	Education level, n (%)	 	 Primary	40 (29.4)	 	 Secondary	77 (56.6)	 	 University	16 (11.8)	 	 None	3 (2.2)	 	Current work status, n (%)	 	 Working out of household	70 (51.5)	 	 Unemployed	66 (48.5)	 	\nA total of 136 individuals participated in the study: 85 (62.5%) women and 51 (37.5%) men; median age was 26 (range 19-44) years for women and 29 (range, 19-59) years for men; 77 (56.6%) participants had completed secondary school (Table 1). Approximately 5% refused to participate in the study mostly citing personal reasons and lack of time. \nThe result sections are organized to highlight issues in contraception, ZIKV infection and PAC services, respectively.\nContraception\nKnowledge on contraceptive methods\n&quot;They don't provide advice regarding family planning and they only ask &quot;What kind of family planning do you want?&quot; without informing the patient about the side effects of the different methods, for example the risks that an IUD can bring in the future, or the risks of the injection, so I end up choosing the method that a friend recommended&quot;. (Focus Group, women, Hospital).\nMost participants knew at least one contraceptive method. The most frequently mentioned were pills, injections and implants, while less frequently mentioned methods were intrauterine devices (IUD), male condoms and surgical sterilisation. Both female and male participants knew about female condoms but lacked detailed information about them. Both men and women said that although they knew they could choose different contraceptive methods, they would like to receive more detailed information on each individual method, specifically regarding their adverse effects and efficacy.\nAttitude towards contraception\nParticipants generally had a positive attitude towards the use of contraceptive methods. Women and their partners said they did not feel stigmatized for seeking information on methods at the health facilities. Few men acknowledged they did not allow their partners to use contraceptive methods, while others considered contraceptive use should be a shared decision. Despite the knowledge about contraceptive methods and the positive attitude, many participants specified that their children had not been planned. In fact, many women said that they had sought contraceptive methods only after giving birth.\nConcerns about contraceptive methods\n&quot;This guy had sex with a lady, and she got pregnant, and he said it was not his baby .... And then there was a fight at home. When he came to the hospital he got examined and he really was fertile even though he had been operated! Could you just imagine if he had killed that woman!&quot; (Focus Group, Women, Clinic).\nMany participants shared doubts about the effectiveness and the adverse effects associated with contraceptive methods and had concerns on the lack of comfort when using them. Most participants believed that the effectiveness of each contraception method varied with each person. In fact, women thought that although physicians had information on the methods, they may not know how individual women's bodies would react to each method. Many participants provided anecdotes involving the experience of friends or family that supported their perception that any method, even surgical sterilisation, could fail.\n&quot;I am scared of implanon [implant], I'm honest. No doctor will tell you the truth, they tell you the implanon will cover this or that, but they won't tell you that in the future it will give you cancer&quot;. (Focus Group, Women, Clinic).\nWomen most commonly accepted and used hormonal contraception; indeed, many preferred the three-month injection because it was freely distributed at the public hospital and was easily accessed. Participants' main concerns regarding hormonal methods were their efficacy and their association with cancer, infertility, weight gain and skin blotches.\nPills though had a burdensome daily regimen, were considered a very effective method. Participants had information on morning-after pills but explained that the use of this method was frequently associated with rape. For men, the most popular method were male condoms; however, they would use it for the prevention of sexual transmitted diseases (STI) rather than for contraception. Of note, only a few participants included Zika in the group of diseases that could be prevented through condom. Some male participants were aware of surgical sterilisation (vasectomy), although only very few men were considering having it.\nBarriers in access, distance and hospital hours\n&quot;Look, I came here on Sunday, at 9 am and they told me I had to come back at 1pm. I came back at 1pm and they told me they were not open because they were going to disinfect the place. So, I came back on Monday and told me to stay on a line of people, I tried to explain to the girl, so they told me to return in the afternoon&quot;. (Interview, Woman, Clinic).\nParticipants observed that opening hours at health centres were limited and that the distance between their homes and the health facilities was a significant access barrier. Therefore, participants often arrived at the hospital at 4 am to secure an appointment. Most of the participants said that the admission process was disorganized and difficult and that waiting times were very long and thought the probable cause of delays was insufficient numbers of staff and lack of administrative organization.\nRegarding infrastructure, some participants complained that the toilets were not clean; however, at the last round of survey, a few participants acknowledged there had been some improvements in cleanliness and infrastructure.\nQuality of services\n&quot;The service here (public health centre) is not the same as in a private clinic where you have to pay because here there are so many people. The doctors have to see so many people that they cannot have a special relationship with you&quot; (Focus Group, Women, Clinic).\nParticipants considered that counselling services on reproductive health, especially on contraception were inconsistent and insufficient. Those who wanted to use contraception, received information provided at compulsory meetings only. Several participants suggested that health professionals should proactively approach people and give them more information on reproductive health and that counselling service should be extended to all even during the afternoons and evenings.\nPrivacy and confidentiality\n&quot;I don't know why, but with women we have more confidence, though some men are more sensitive sometimes, but for intimacy issues it is better to have a woman [as health personnel]&quot;. (Focus Group, Women, Hospital).\nSome women felt uncomfortable during the consultations due to lack of privacy. They would prefer female providers.\n&quot;You know what I'd change? I'd make this office private for women who come here for the (DMPA) shot, because you have to pull down your trousers, and you really feel embarrassed, sometimes in presence of three, four, five other people there&quot; (Focus Group, Women, Clinic).\nOften, single women sought counselling service and information in clinics outside their communities to avoid the embarrassment of being recognised by neighbours or healthcare staff. Moreover, it was reported that, sometimes, confidentiality was ignored by health staff, and this contributed to users' mistrust in the services.\nAccess to methods\nParticipants stated that they could receive some contraception methods free of charge, including three-month injection, condoms and IUD. However, participants perceived that the condoms freely distributed at health facilities were small and of bad quality; therefore, when needed, they preferred buying at the pharmacies. Those condoms were considered to be inexpensive, of better quality and accessible in nearby vicinity. No improvement in services were perceived by the participants throughout the interview rounds.\nZIKA virus infection\nTransmission of zika\n&quot;I know that (Zika) is transmitted by the mosquito, that is the main thing, and that we have to pay attention if we have the basins, if we have plants and barrels, we have to keep them clean to avoid larvae and mosquitos at our houses&quot; (Focus Group, Women, Hospital).\nParticipants were aware that Zika was mainly transmitted by mosquitoes. Participants mentioned that pregnant women could be infected if they had sexual intercourse with an infected person and that this could be avoided using condoms.\nHowever, from rounds one to three of survey, the number of participants who also knew of the possible sexual transmission of Zika, decreased (in correlation with distance in time with the outbreak).\nRisks involved in zika\n&quot;Well, I've heard that it affects people, pregnant women, and the baby. When someone is infected, they can infect the baby and cause complications&quot; (Focus Group, Women, Hospital).\n&quot;We must be careful, if we are pregnant, we should be especially careful of not getting a bite, because the baby could be affected&quot;. (Focus Group, Women, Hospital).\nParticipants mentioned that Zika infection was associated with serious risks for pregnant women. Most mentioned that the baby could get sick, die in the womb, have problems in the head and brain; suffer from microcephaly. Fewer mentioned the Guillain-Barre syndrome and malformations. There was confusion among participants about the difference among Dengue, Chikungunya and Zika infections. For them, the three diseases had the same symptoms and consequences in men or in non-pregnant women. This perception didn't change in the different rounds of interviews.\nSources of information on zika\n&quot;What I know is how to prevent the disease, but not how to take care of oneself once you get the disease; most of all I know about prevention, that includes a clean household and getting rid of all possible mosquito breeding places and that is what they mainly talk about in the news&quot; (Focus Group, Women, Hospital).\nMost frequently mentioned sources of information were television and radio, followed by Facebook and informative posters at health facilities. During round one of data collection, participants recalled having received information through mass or social media on how to avoid or control mosquitos at home and recalled having seen images of babies with microcephaly.\n&quot;Information on Zika is only available when there is an outbreak, they give information to prevent the disease. Why is information available only during outbreaks?&quot; (Focus Group, Men, Hospital).\nHealth professionals were the most reliable source of information. However, at the last round of survey, at the end of epidemic, fewer participants received information or noticed any brochures or posters at the health facilities.\nPrevention of Zika\n&quot;We should wash well the sink with chlorine, if you see a tire there with water you must empty it, if you have a leak, or containers full of water they have to be emptied, because that is where the mosquito comes from, wash all the ditches, everything has to be cleaned as much as possible&quot; (Focus Group, Women, Hospital).\nParticipants mentioned that they knew of some preventive measures mostly related to the vector transmission; such as covering the water tank (called pila) and cleaning it; however, the information on the frequency of cleaning was not clearly communicated.\nThey knew to use repellents, mosquito nets and coils, and cut tall grass and bushes. Less frequent practiced methods were covering buckets, cleaning gutters, or using a fan to repel mosquitos. Aside from the measures they knew of, participants explained they cleaned their house, and used larvicide and bleach in water tanks. However, many participants were against burning mosquito-repelling incense indoors because the smoke caused cough. Of note, by the third round of interviews, participants stressed that actions performed by public and technical teams in the prevention of Zika in neighbourhoods had ceased.\nHealthcare seeking behaviour for Zika infection\nUpon suspicion of Zika, few participants sought care at a health centre and were referred to a hospital to confirm the diagnosis. However, not everyone attended a health centre; some were diagnosed by a relative who knew of the disease and its symptoms. Moreover, these patients acknowledge they were self-medicated with acetaminophen and liquids, because they knew how physicians treated other cases of Zika infection.\nPost-abortion care (PAC)\nTrajectory of women treated for post abortion care at the Gynaecology and Obstetrics Emergency Room and areas for improvement, Hospital, Tegucigalpa, Honduras, 2018\nThe process for women receiving PAC services at the Gynaecology and Obstetrics Emergency Room at the hospital is described in Fig. 2. \nWomen seek emergency obstetric care because either they are referred by a health centre or hospital to manage symptoms such as bleeding or pain; or because they are following up treatment with the drug misoprostol (A). Someone (partner, relative, etc.) may or may not accompany them to hospital (B). Those accompanying the women are not allowed inside the premises of the hospital. At the entrance of emergency gate, women are searched by security personnel and then escorted to a waiting area; those who are not ambulatory are assisted by hospital assistants in wheelchairs. In the waiting area, medical students interview the patients and refer them to specific services. Women needing PAC services are admitted to the Gynaecology and Obstetrics Emergency Room (C). Women in emergency are attended round the clock and those with suspected pregnancy are offered pregnancy test (rapid test).\nPhysicians register patients' data and this registry is completed and collected daily by the statistics department. Misoprostol is prescribed and ultrasound is performed on all women. Patients under observation receive family planning counselling in the same room.\nGeographic and economic challenges in accessing PAC services\n&quot;I decided to come today because I was bleeding so much, I fainted, had cold sweats, nausea and my body was shaking&quot; (Interview, Woman with MVA procedure, Hospital).\nWomen when referred, are warned that reaching hospital could take them up to two hours, or even more if transportation was unavailable. Participants complained that no other public hospitals offered PAC and highlighted the need for these services to be closer to their homes.\nWomen had to cover the transportation cost to the only hospital that offered PAC services in the city, and had to pay 200 Lempiras (approx. US$8) per treatment. However, it could reduce to 50 Lempiras (approx. US$2) if social services office certified that the patient could not afford the full fee. Moreover, the hospital also required the patients to bring a gallon of water to clean the medical equipment.\n&quot;They asked me to buy a pregnancy test. Afterwards when they were about to perform the MVA they told me that I had to pay 200 Lempiras and purchase a container of water&quot;. (Interview, Woman, Hospital).\nSome patients had to pay for their medication and most women paid for a rapid pregnancy test. It was mentioned that misoprostol, anti-inflammatory agents and analgesics were not freely available; instead, patients had to buy them out-of-pocket. Many times, these payments for specific treatments were out of reach of patients.\nBy the final round of this survey, following discussion of research team with health authorities, this requirement and the fee was eliminated. The hospital administration purchased a water filter system for emergency room and medical staff with research study's funds.\nAbsence of waiting space\n&quot;The cleaners just started to throw water on the floor, they didn't mind if I had my clothes there or if I was sitting there. I was sitting there, after two nights without any sleep, I fell asleep on my bags on the floor and when I woke up because someone told me to, they were throwing water at me&quot; (Interview, Man, Hospital).\nParticipants complained that male partners and relatives were not allowed into the hospital and had to wait long hours without any protection from the weather; slept on the floor at night and received no updates on the health of their partners from physicians or nurses.\n&quot;Through emergency, I got her [wife] in and the guard treated me badly because I came with her and he told me that I couldn't go in and I told him that it was an emergency because she was my wife and she was really sick and had problems&quot;. (Focus Group, Men, Hospital).\nWomen seeking for emergency care remained unaccompanied in the waiting area and during the procedure.\nInsufficient infrastructure for services\nA very common complaint during the first round was the lack of privacy for the women who sought assistance or during a procedure, including the lack of sufficient beds or rooms. Most participants complained that the admission process was disorganised, difficult and time-consuming, the public toilets were unclean, and medications were often lacking.\nThe reproductive health counselling was only given after MVA procedures were performed, with no privacy and in the presence of other patients. Over time, participants acknowledged some improvements specially ward cleanliness.\nMistreatment and abuse\n&quot;Today, I was undergoing the MVA, the doctor was doing the procedure with people standing by the door, there was a student asking one thing and another and doctor's phone kept ringing&quot;. (Interview, Woman, Hospital).\nMany participants agreed they had been mistreated by physicians and nurses when seeking PAC or emergency care. Some of the women felt that they were laughed at, reprimanded and ignored by both physicians and nurses.\n&quot;My mom asked for information because when I was in the ward and there were many girls who had had an abortion and they told me  you have to rest, you can't crouch, you can't travel . So, I told mom to get information. The first time I had an abortion, they didn't explain anything to me, they just told me  go away and take care! , just that. So, my mom asked a nurse and she just said I had to rest, just that&quot; (Focus Group, Women, Hospital).\nThe most common complaint was the staff's lack of empathy and indifference to their health situation.\n&quot;My partner was being accompanied by her sister. I could not get in touch with my partner, I could not even call her on the cell phone. Then, I could talk to her sister, she called me, she was crying and told me that my baby's heart was not beating and the doctors had performed an ultrasound and had seen my baby was dead and that they going to do another ultrasound&quot; (Interview, Man, Hospital).\nAccompanying male partners and female patients described instances of mistreatment by the security staff when being admitted to the hospital. The male partners mentioned that they did not receive information about the patients' health and procedures during in-hospital stay, the remarked they feel mistreated and that produced distress and fear.\nQuality of services\n&quot;It is a horrible sensation, because one feels as if they are pulling the uterus and the doctors only tell us to cooperate but that is, it is impossible to stay relaxed, when one is going through something so painful.&quot; (Interview, Woman, Hospital).\nSome women complained of having to wait for long hours in pain, only to receive what they perceived as unsatisfactory care. Some women who were prescribed misoprostol felt that they had been discharged without adequate information as they felt staff did not sufficiently explain the procedures to them. Some patients reported that physicians did not treat and even ignored the symptoms they complained about, in particular, pain. After unsuccessful treatment in their own home, some participants had to return to hospital for treatment.\nDiscussion\nThe qualitative approach used in this study captured community perspective regarding contraception services, and quality of PAC in the context of the Zika virus outbreak in Tegucigalpa, Honduras. Our findings contributed to identify improvement areas and to implement solutions. The study shows particularly unmet needs for contraceptive counselling and access to methods. Women and men of reproductive age demanded further information on contraceptive methods; in addition, we found structural and cultural barriers to access to sexual health care still exist.\nParticipants had information on the risk of Zika during pregnancy and were aware of the vector transmission. Interestingly, participants perceived that Zika, Dengue and Chikungunya were different stages of the same disease. Sources of information mentioned by participants about Zika included mass media, social media, other community members and healthcare providers. Paradoxically, physician and nurses were perceived as the most trustworthy sources of information. By the final round of the study, fewer people could identify the risk of sexual transmission of Zika, and participants noticed that less information on the disease was available and acknowledged that preventive actions by governmental technical teams had ceased. Similarly, it has been reported that knowledge about sexual transmission was low among Brazilian women.\nFindings also indicate the existence of geographical and economic barriers to accessing healthcare services, poor quality of care and mistreatment of women seeking PAC and for their partners. The improvement strategies implemented by health authorities based on the partial findings of the study were acknowledged by healthcare users; participants mentioned that the consultation fee and the requirement to bring clean water to the health facility had been eliminated. Comparable results were found in pregnant women seeking healthcare during Zika epidemic in Colombia, where out of pocket payments and insufficient information acted as barriers.\nCurrent modern contraceptive methods available in Honduras were mentioned by study participants: contraceptive pills, condoms, intrauterine device, sterilization, injectables, hormone implants, patches, diaphragms, spermicidal agents, and emergency contraception. Coinciding with previous reports, women were knowledgeable and supportive of a range of contraceptive methods. However, many informants revealed that their pregnancies had not been planned. It may be the case that larger structural factors prevented them from obtaining their method of choice. It was also found that Honduran women frequently changed contraceptive methods, suggesting women encountered problems with the methods and that they changed their pregnancy intentions.\nAs seen in this study, anecdotal information plays an important role in choosing a method and in deciding to seek medical help. Self-medication and shared information instead of medical care are common in other Latin American countries. In low income countries, women, in particular adolescents, still resort to dangerous solutions when legal abortion is not available, indicating current system and structural failures inherent in service systems. As in the case of Brazil, there seems to be a missed opportunity to counsel women about reproductive health when they use emergency care or when they visit a health facility. Information sharing norms exist around sexual and reproductive health. In the past years, due to the support by international organizations, Honduras has been implementing family planning programs to improve contraceptive supply chains and information flows.\nThe ZIKV infection still poses a public health threat and the huge population living in Aedes-infested regions makes re-emergence of ZIKV infection likely; therefore, it is critical to improve health system capacity and increase efforts in LMIC to respond to future Zika epidemics. In our study, problems on the quality and accessibility of PAC services seemed to be independent of the ZIKV epidemic; however, the increased need of maternal healthcare in the context of an epidemic may make those problems more evident. Some structural problems in facilities were addressed during the research study, and, indeed participants acknowledged and appreciated the positive changes. For example, consultation fees for women seeking care were reduced or eliminated; the requirement to bring clean water to the hospital was eliminated. Other improvements at the end of the study included the printing and distribution of brochures and posters about contraceptive methods and their failure rates; redistribution of furniture and functionality at the MVA ward to transform a staff resting room into a clinical examination room to provide privacy; addition of FP counselling services; and training of staff on humanized PAC.\nMany countries with autochthonous Zika transmission have restrictive abortion laws, particularly affecting women of lower socioeconomic status. Indeed, in Honduras, abortion is illegal in all circumstances; therefore, legal and functional restrictions block this option for women without economic means and for those whose choices are restricted by geographical access. At the time of the data collection, women who experienced an abortion could receive evidence-based care in only one public hospital of Tegucigalpa. For this reason, the first main barrier was geographical access; women who did access healthcare also faced problems in the admission process.\nParticipants described their experience when seeking health care as physically and emotionally disturbing. Institutional violence during PAC was mentioned by many participants; comparable experiences were described by women in Brazil, another country that experienced Zika outbreak. Participants reported discriminatory practices, moral judgement, negligence in the control of pain, lack of privacy, and long wait for uterine curettage. Privacy is a key element in quality of care and a basic human right. Women's accounts suggest this is neglected in healthcare centres, where privacy is violated in situation of vulnerability.\nIn the study, violations of autonomy and informed choice were also described by women in which seems to be a culture of asymmetrical power relationships; a usual reality for women who are affected by Zika and other public health crisis, in which women find it difficult to freely decide about their lives, their sexuality, their reproduction and their bodies. In a recent nationally representative study among Honduran women, physical, sexual, and emotional interpersonal violence were associated with sexual and reproductive health outcomes; indeed, contextual factors such as gender inequality may contribute to this in this context. In our study, women reported instances of harmful practices not only within the health system but also outside. Authorities still need to address the imperative problem of ill-treatment. Interventions to improve access and adequate healthcare may include policy, health service structure, and continuous training, among others. It has been shown that interventions in human resources for health impact positively on improving maternal health. It is also necessary to provide education, alleviate poverty, and improve infrastructure, establish gender equality among other steps for improved maternal health.\nDuring the Zika epidemic, women in our study did not mention having received specific information on Zika when they used emergency care and that information on counselling was inconsistent; in fact, information seems to be distributed only during specific campaigns against diseases such as Zika or dengue. Counselling at health facilities is a crucial intervention for the promotion of contraceptive use. However, as seen in our study, visiting a health facility per se does not necessarily mean that a woman would receive counselling. For community members with lower education levels (as the participants included in our study), awareness campaigns may be useful. This is a strong message in itself. Coinciding with another report from Brazil, women in our study were not fully aware that Zika could be sexually transmitted and counselling about this issue was limited. Preventing the spread of Zika virus is very important but it is also necessary to combat congenital Zika syndrome epidemic through access to contraception, education, and access to safe abortion services. Clinicians have a role in ensuring that patients receive information to obtain reproductive health care, which includes management of post-abortion complications.\nStrength and limitations of the study\nThis qualitative study succeeded in the inclusion of typical cases of health care users and their companions. Given the nature of the study design, the sample of participants is not representative of the larger population of the healthcare users in the country. Instead, we explored thoughts, opinions and experiences of purposively selected population. We included users of the two main health facilities providing reproductive health services and the only health facility providing PAC in Tegucigalpa at the time of the study. Users from rural areas were not represented. The results of the study do not mean to be generalizable but contributes to know and understand the healthcare circumstances from the users point of view. There is the possibility that some participants reserved responses for fear of scrutiny from investigators or peers. However, all participants contributed to the discussions. Although results of the research project from which this study stems had implications on how Zika epidemic in Honduras was addressed, the timeframe did not allow for measuring changes adequately. This study is an example of implementation research in low and middle-income countries and its benefits by facilitating the delivery of evidence-informed interventions.\nConclusions\nOur findings highlight the challenges and areas for improvement in policy and practice related to contraception services and PAC in the context of ZIKV infection. The methodology allowed us to identify and record the community perspective. Zika epidemic has highlighted weaknesses in health systems that obstruct access to and use of sexual and reproductive health services. Public policies to prevent Zika epidemics should focus more on providing proper sanitation and removing barriers to access and use of effective contraception.. The study results call for increased efforts to improve access, especially for women of low socio-economic status and intervene at different levels to eradicate discrimination and improve equity in the provision of health care.\nSupplementary information\nAbbreviations\nFP\nFamily planning\nLAC\nLatin America and Caribbean\nLMIC\nLow and Middle income Countries\nMVA\nManual Vacuum Aspiration\nPAC\nPost abortion care\nPAHO\nPan-American Health Organization\nPHEIC\nPublic Health Emergency of International Concern\nRH\nReproductive Health\nSDG\nSustainable Development Goal\nSTI\nSexually Transmitted Infections\nWHO\nWorld Health Organization\nZIKV\nZika Virus\nPublisher's Note\nSpringer Nature remains neutral with regard to jurisdictional claims in published maps and institutional affiliations.\nSupplementary information\nSupplementary information accompanies this paper at 10.1186/s12905-020-01066-7.\nAuthors' contributions\nMA conceived the study idea, developed the protocol of the study; MA, JA and MB developed the methodology, MB developed data collection tools and data analysis plan, trained the data collectors, conducted interviews, participated in the data analysis and drafting of the manuscript; EM contributed in the development of local protocol, methodology plan, data collection tools and data analysis, coordinated the field work, conducted interviews; JR contributed to the data analysis, interpretation of findings and drafting of the manuscript; MC, AFO and JCA performed the interviews, data collection, collaborated with the data codification and interpretation; GG, CB, AC and HB supported the field work, contributed to the analysis of barriers and facilitators, supported the incorporation of institutional changes; MLC and AT participated in the local protocol development, supervised the project, facilitated the team building, contributed to the general data analysis plan; JA and AT participated in the local protocol development, supervised the project, facilitated the team building, contributed to the general data analysis plan and drafting of the manuscript; MA and AT reviewed the manuscript for intellectual content. All authors discussed the results; read, edited and approved the final version of the manuscript.\nFunding\nThe study was funded by Large Anonymous Donor under the Grant ID 5149 for Women, Communities, and Health Systems in the Context of Zika. The funding sources did not play a role in the study design, in the writing of the report, or in the decision to submit the article for publication.\nThis report contains the collective views of an international group of experts, and does not necessarily represent the decisions or the stated policy of the World Health Organization.\nAvailability of data and materials\nThe qualitative data will be available upon request. Requests can be sent to alimoa@who.int\nEthics approval and consent to participate\nFollowing approval by WHO scientific and ethics review, the protocol was reviewed and approved by the IRB at the Faculty of Medical Sciences of the Universidad Nacional Autonoma de Honduras (UNAH), Tegucigalpa, Honduras (Reference Number 201750). All participants were informed about the objectives of the study and their rights and provided a written informed consent. Study forms were numbered, and no individual personal information was entered in the audiotape and written transcripts.\nConsent for publication\nNot applicable.\nCompeting interests\nNone declared.\nReferences\nZika Virus\nA study protocol for facility assessment and follow-up evaluations of the barriers to access, availability, utilization and readiness of contraception, abortion and postabortion services in Zika affected areas\nAccess to contraception in the context of Zika: health system challenges and responses\nThe paradigm of the paradox: women, pregnant women, and the unequal burdens of the Zika virus pandemic\nSchuck-Paim C, Lopez D, Simonsen L, Alonso W. Unintended pregnancies in Brazil - a challenge for the recommendation to delay pregnancy due to Zika. PLoS Curr. 2016;8.\nZika virus and women\nSexual and reproductive behaviour among single women aged 15-24 in eight Latin American countries: a comparative analysis\nEquity and women's health services for contraception, abortion and childbirth in Brazil\nAccess to Contraception in the Context of Zika\nGlobal, regional, and national age-sex-specific mortality for 282 causes of death in 195 countries and territories, 1980-2017: a systematic analysis for the global burden of disease study 2017\nLa situacion economica: social determinants of contraceptive use in rural Honduras\nMunakampe MN, Zulu JM, Michelo C. Contraception and abortion knowledge, attitudes and practices among adolescents from low and middle-income countries: a systematic review. BMC Health Serv Res. 2018;18(1).\nZika virus:10 public health achievements in 2016 and future priorities\nInequality, Zika epidemics, and the lack of reproductive rights in Latin America\nConsolidated criteria for reporting qualitative research (COREQ): a 32-item checklist for interviews and focus groups\nWomen's reproductive health knowledge, attitudes and practices in relation to the Zika virus outbreak in Northeast Brazil\nA qualitative study of the experiences of pregnant women in accessing healthcare services during the Zika virus epidemic in Villavicencio, Colombia, 2015-2016\nContraceptive knowledge and use among women living in the poorest areas of five Mesoamerican countries\nSpeizer IS, Irani L, Barden-O'Fallon J, et al. Inconsistent fertility motivations and contraceptive use behaviors among women in Honduras. Reprod Health. 2009;6:19. 10.1186/1742-4755-6-19.\nNon-hormonal and hormonal intrauterine contraception: survey of patients' perceptions in four Latin American countries\nZika knowledge and preventive practices among reproductive-age women from Lambayeque, Peru\nZika virus infection - after the pandemic\nFamily planning and Zika virus: the power of prevention\nMaltreatment and discrimination in induced abortion care: perception of women in Teresina, state of Piaui, Brazil\nSebert Kuhlmann A, Shato T, Fu Q, Sierra M. Intimate partner violence, pregnancy intention and contraceptive use in Honduras. Contraception. 2019;100(2):137-41. 10.1016/j.contraception.2019.03.050.\nSystematic review on human resources for health interventions to improve maternal health outcomes: evidence from low- and middle-income countries\nFamily planning and the Zika era\nAbortion rights in peril - what clinicians need to know\nHow is implementation research applied to advance health in low-income and middle-income countries?\n","References depth 1":[{"doi":"10.1056/NEJMra1602113","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Zika Virus","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"10.1186/s12978-017-0283-8","date":"2017-01-07","title":"A study protocol for facility assessment and follow-up evaluations of the barriers to access, availability, utilization and readiness of contraception, abortion and postabortion services in Zika affected areas","abstract":"Background\nThe Zika virus epidemic in Latin America has elicited official recommendations for women to delay or avoid pregnancy in affected countries, which has increased demand for family planning services.\n\n It is likely, however, that health facilities in areas where the population is most vulnerable to the disease lack the capacity to respond to the increased demand for family planning services.\n\n Our objectives are to perform facilities assessment and understand client perceptions in areas affected by Zika virus, and to track changes in these parameters over time.\n\n\nMethods/design\nWe will collaborate with local health authorities to map facilities that have the capacity to provide services in contraception and safe abortion, including induced abortion to the full extent of the law and post-abortion care for treatment of complications from unsafe abortion and post-abortion contraception.\n\n We then will carry out a survey of facilities to assess the availability of services and their readiness to provide contraception and safe abortion care.\n\n All facilities will be assessed for baseline readiness and availability of services, and a random subsample of surveyed facilities will be reassessed in second and third rounds of surveys.\n\n Focus group interviews with clients will be conducted as part of the facilities surveys in order to gain an understanding of the community’s knowledge, needs and perceived barriers to healthcare in the context of the Zika virus epidemic.\n\n\nDiscussion\nThe findings of this study will aid the response to Zika virus ranging from the identification of healthcare facilities that can be potentially strengthened, to the formulation of interventions to reduce barriers and improve readiness of facilities to provide contraception and safe abortion services.\n\n Lessons learned from this study will help to build and strengthen health systems that are more prepared to consistently providing reproductive healthcare services in the context of health emergencies.\n\n\n","id":"PMC5288873","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"BioMed Central","authors":[{"firstname":"Moazzam","surname":"Ali","email":"alimoa@who.int","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Rachel","surname":"Folz","email":"rcfolz@gmail.com","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Kelsey","surname":"Miller","email":"kelsey.miller88@gmail.com","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Brooke Ronald","surname":"Johnson","email":"JohnsonB@who.int","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"James","surname":"Kiarie","email":"kiariej@who.int","contributions":"1"}],"References depth 2":[{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Moazzam Ali, Rachel Folz, Kelsey Miller, Brooke Ronald Johnson Jr and James Kiarie. A study protocol for facility assessment and follow-up evaluations of the barriers to access, availability, utilization and readiness of contraception, abortion and postabortion services in Zika affected areas. 10.1186/s12978-017-0283-8.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]}]},{"doi":"10.1097/AOG.0000000000001914","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Access to contraception in the context of Zika: health system challenges and responses","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Zika Virus and Birth Defects - Reviewing the Evidence for Causality","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Estimating Contraceptive Needs and Increasing Access to Contraception in Response to the Zika Virus Disease Outbreak -- Puerto Rico, 2016","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Delay Pregnancy in Areas with Zika, W.H.O. Suggests","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Update: Interim Guidelines for Health Care Providers Caring for Pregnant Women and Women of Reproductive Age with Possible Zika Virus Exposure -- United States, 2016","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Providing family planning care in the context of Zika: a toolkit for providers from the US Office of Population Affairs","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Countering Zika Globally and in the United States: Women's Right to Self-Determination Must Be Central","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Inicio de vida sexual, uso de anticonceptivos y planificacion familiar en mujeres adolescentes y adultas en Mexico","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The relationship of age and place of delivery with post-partum contraception prior to discharge in Mexico: A retrospective cohort study","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Comprehensive reform to improve health system performance in Mexico","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Countries Hit With Zika Virus Are Telling Women Not to Get Pregnant","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Declines in Unintended Pregnancy in the United States, 2008-2011","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Estimating the Number of Pregnant Women Infected With Zika Virus and Expected Infants With Microcephaly Following the Zika Virus Outbreak in Puerto Rico, 2016","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Cost-effectiveness of Increasing Access to Contraception during the Zika Virus Outbreak, Puerto Rico, 2016","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Requests for Abortion in Latin America Related to Concern about Zika Virus Exposure","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]}]},{"doi":"10.1080/15265161.2016.1177367","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The paradigm of the paradox: women, pregnant women, and the unequal burdens of the Zika virus pandemic","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Schuck-Paim C, Lopez D, Simonsen L, Alonso W. Unintended pregnancies in Brazil - a challenge for the recommendation to delay pregnancy due to Zika. PLoS Curr. 2016;8.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"10.1590/0102-311X00046316","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Zika virus and women","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/j.socscimed.2004.07.002","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Sexual and reproductive behaviour among single women aged 15-24 in eight Latin American countries: a comparative analysis","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/S0968-8080(12)40657-7","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Equity and women's health services for contraception, abortion and childbirth in Brazil","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"10.1097/AOG.0000000000001914","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Access to Contraception in the Context of Zika","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Zika Virus and Birth Defects - Reviewing the Evidence for Causality","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Estimating Contraceptive Needs and Increasing Access to Contraception in Response to the Zika Virus Disease Outbreak -- Puerto Rico, 2016","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Delay Pregnancy in Areas with Zika, W.H.O. Suggests","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Update: Interim Guidelines for Health Care Providers Caring for Pregnant Women and Women of Reproductive Age with Possible Zika Virus Exposure -- United States, 2016","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Providing family planning care in the context of Zika: a toolkit for providers from the US Office of Population Affairs","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Countering Zika Globally and in the United States: Women's Right to Self-Determination Must Be Central","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Inicio de vida sexual, uso de anticonceptivos y planificacion familiar en mujeres adolescentes y adultas en Mexico","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The relationship of age and place of delivery with post-partum contraception prior to discharge in Mexico: A retrospective cohort study","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Comprehensive reform to improve health system performance in Mexico","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Countries Hit With Zika Virus Are Telling Women Not to Get Pregnant","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Declines in Unintended Pregnancy in the United States, 2008-2011","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Estimating the Number of Pregnant Women Infected With Zika Virus and Expected Infants With Microcephaly Following the Zika Virus Outbreak in Puerto Rico, 2016","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Cost-effectiveness of Increasing Access to Contraception during the Zika Virus Outbreak, Puerto Rico, 2016","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Requests for Abortion in Latin America Related to Concern about Zika Virus Exposure","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]}]},{"doi":"10.1016/S0140-6736(18)32203-7","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Global, regional, and national age-sex-specific mortality for 282 causes of death in 195 countries and territories, 1980–2017: a systematic analysis for the Global Burden of Disease Study 2017","abstract":"Background\nGlobal development goals increasingly rely on country-specific estimates for benchmarking a nation's progress.\n\n To meet this need, the Global Burden of Diseases, Injuries, and Risk Factors Study (GBD) 2016 estimated global, regional, national, and, for selected locations, subnational cause-specific mortality beginning in the year 1980. Here we report an update to that study, making use of newly available data and improved methods.\n\n GBD 2017 provides a comprehensive assessment of cause-specific mortality for 282 causes in 195 countries and territories from 1980 to 2017.\nMethods\nThe causes of death database is composed of vital registration (VR), verbal autopsy (VA), registry, survey, police, and surveillance data.\n\n GBD 2017 added ten VA studies, 127 country-years of VR data, 502 cancer-registry country-years, and an additional surveillance country-year.\n\n Expansions of the GBD cause of death hierarchy resulted in 18 additional causes estimated for GBD 2017. Newly available data led to subnational estimates for five additional countries—Ethiopia, Iran, New Zealand, Norway, and Russia.\n\n Deaths assigned International Classification of Diseases (ICD) codes for non-specific, implausible, or intermediate causes of death were reassigned to underlying causes by redistribution algorithms that were incorporated into uncertainty estimation.\n\n We used statistical modelling tools developed for GBD, including the Cause of Death Ensemble model (CODEm), to generate cause fractions and cause-specific death rates for each location, year, age, and sex.\n\n Instead of using UN estimates as in previous versions, GBD 2017 independently estimated population size and fertility rate for all locations.\n\n Years of life lost (YLLs) were then calculated as the sum of each death multiplied by the standard life expectancy at each age.\n\n All rates reported here are age-standardised.\n\n\nFindings\nAt the broadest grouping of causes of death (Level 1), non-communicable diseases (NCDs) comprised the greatest fraction of deaths, contributing to 73·4% (95% uncertainty interval [UI] 72·5–74·1) of total deaths in 2017, while communicable, maternal, neonatal, and nutritional (CMNN) causes accounted for 18·6% (17·9–19·6), and injuries 8·0% (7·7–8·2).\n\n Total numbers of deaths from NCD causes increased from 2007 to 2017 by 22·7% (21·5–23·9), representing an additional 7·61 million (7·20–8·01) deaths estimated in 2017 versus 2007. The death rate from NCDs decreased globally by 7·9% (7·0–8·8).\n\n The number of deaths for CMNN causes decreased by 22·2% (20·0–24·0) and the death rate by 31·8% (30·1–33·3).\n\n Total deaths from injuries increased by 2·3% (0·5–4·0) between 2007 and 2017, and the death rate from injuries decreased by 13·7% (12·2–15·1) to 57·9 deaths (55·9–59·2) per 100?000 in 2017. Deaths from substance use disorders also increased, rising from 284?000 deaths (268?000–289?000) globally in 2007 to 352?000 (334?000–363?000) in 2017. Between 2007 and 2017, total deaths from conflict and terrorism increased by 118·0% (88·8–148·6).\n\n A greater reduction in total deaths and death rates was observed for some CMNN causes among children younger than 5 years than for older adults, such as a 36·4% (32·2–40·6) reduction in deaths from lower respiratory infections for children younger than 5 years compared with a 33·6% (31·2–36·1) increase in adults older than 70 years.\n\n Globally, the number of deaths was greater for men than for women at most ages in 2017, except at ages older than 85 years.\n\n Trends in global YLLs reflect an epidemiological transition, with decreases in total YLLs from enteric infections, respiratory infections and tuberculosis, and maternal and neonatal disorders between 1990 and 2017; these were generally greater in magnitude at the lowest levels of the Socio-demographic Index (SDI).\n\n At the same time, there were large increases in YLLs from neoplasms and cardiovascular diseases.\n\n YLL rates decreased across the five leading Level 2 causes in all SDI quintiles.\n\n The leading causes of YLLs in 1990—neonatal disorders, lower respiratory infections, and diarrhoeal diseases—were ranked second, fourth, and fifth, in 2017. Meanwhile, estimated YLLs increased for ischaemic heart disease (ranked first in 2017) and stroke (ranked third), even though YLL rates decreased.\n\n Population growth contributed to increased total deaths across the 20 leading Level 2 causes of mortality between 2007 and 2017. Decreases in the cause-specific mortality rate reduced the effect of population growth for all but three causes: substance use disorders, neurological disorders, and skin and subcutaneous diseases.\n\n\nInterpretation\nImprovements in global health have been unevenly distributed among populations.\n\n Deaths due to injuries, substance use disorders, armed conflict and terrorism, neoplasms, and cardiovascular disease are expanding threats to global health.\n\n For causes of death such as lower respiratory and enteric infections, more rapid progress occurred for children than for the oldest adults, and there is continuing disparity in mortality rates by sex across age groups.\n\n Reductions in the death rate of some common diseases are themselves slowing or have ceased, primarily for NCDs, and the death rate for selected causes has increased in the past decade.\n\n\nFunding\nBill &amp; Melinda Gates Foundation.\n\n\n","id":"PMC6227606","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Elsevier","authors":[{"firstname":"Gregory A","surname":"Roth","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Degu","surname":"Abate","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Kalkidan Hassen","surname":"Abate","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Solomon M","surname":"Abay","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Cristiana","surname":"Abbafati","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Nooshin","surname":"Abbasi","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Hedayat","surname":"Abbastabar","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Foad","surname":"Abd-Allah","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jemal","surname":"Abdela","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ahmed","surname":"Abdelalim","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ibrahim","surname":"Abdollahpour","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Rizwan Suliankatchi","surname":"Abdulkader","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Haftom Temesgen","surname":"Abebe","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Molla","surname":"Abebe","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Zegeye","surname":"Abebe","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ayenew Negesse","surname":"Abejie","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Semaw F","surname":"Abera","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Olifan Zewdie","surname":"Abil","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Haftom Niguse","surname":"Abraha","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Aklilu Roba","surname":"Abrham","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Laith Jamal","surname":"Abu-Raddad","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Manfred Mario Kokou","surname":"Accrombessi","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Dilaram","surname":"Acharya","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Abdu A","surname":"Adamu","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Oladimeji M","surname":"Adebayo","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Rufus Adesoji","surname":"Adedoyin","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Victor","surname":"Adekanmbi","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Olatunji O","surname":"Adetokunboh","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Beyene Meressa","surname":"Adhena","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Mina G","surname":"Adib","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Amha","surname":"Admasie","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ashkan","surname":"Afshin","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Gina","surname":"Agarwal","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Kareha M","surname":"Agesa","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Anurag","surname":"Agrawal","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Sutapa","surname":"Agrawal","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Alireza","surname":"Ahmadi","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Mehdi","surname":"Ahmadi","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Muktar Beshir","surname":"Ahmed","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Sayem","surname":"Ahmed","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Amani Nidhal","surname":"Aichour","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ibtihel","surname":"Aichour","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Miloud Taki Eddine","surname":"Aichour","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Mohammad Esmaeil","surname":"Akbari","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Rufus Olusola","surname":"Akinyemi","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Nadia","surname":"Akseer","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ziyad","surname":"Al-Aly","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ayman","surname":"Al-Eyadhy","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Rajaa M","surname":"Al-Raddadi","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Fares","surname":"Alahdab","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Khurshid","surname":"Alam","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Tahiya","surname":"Alam","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Animut","surname":"Alebel","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Kefyalew Addis","surname":"Alene","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Mehran","surname":"Alijanzadeh","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Reza","surname":"Alizadeh-Navaei","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Syed Mohamed","surname":"Aljunid","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ala'a","surname":"Alkerwi","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"François","surname":"Alla","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Peter","surname":"Allebeck","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jordi","surname":"Alonso","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Khalid","surname":"Altirkawi","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Nelson","surname":"Alvis-Guzman","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Azmeraw T","surname":"Amare","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Leopold N","surname":"Aminde","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Erfan","surname":"Amini","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Walid","surname":"Ammar","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Yaw Ampem","surname":"Amoako","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Nahla Hamed","surname":"Anber","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Catalina Liliana","surname":"Andrei","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Sofia","surname":"Androudi","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Megbaru Debalkie","surname":"Animut","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Mina","surname":"Anjomshoa","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Hossein","surname":"Ansari","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Mustafa Geleto","surname":"Ansha","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Carl Abelardo T","surname":"Antonio","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Palwasha","surname":"Anwari","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Olatunde","surname":"Aremu","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Johan","surname":"Ärnlöv","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Amit","surname":"Arora","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Monika","surname":"Arora","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Al","surname":"Artaman","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Krishna K","surname":"Aryal","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Hamid","surname":"Asayesh","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ephrem Tsegay","surname":"Asfaw","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Zerihun","surname":"Ataro","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Suleman","surname":"Atique","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Sachin R","surname":"Atre","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Marcel","surname":"Ausloos","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Euripide F G A","surname":"Avokpaho","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ashish","surname":"Awasthi","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Beatriz Paulina Ayala","surname":"Quintanilla","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Yohanes","surname":"Ayele","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Rakesh","surname":"Ayer","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Peter S","surname":"Azzopardi","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Arefeh","surname":"Babazadeh","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Umar","surname":"Bacha","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Hamid","surname":"Badali","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Alaa","surname":"Badawi","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ayele Geleto","surname":"Bali","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Katherine E","surname":"Ballesteros","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Maciej","surname":"Banach","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Kajori","surname":"Banerjee","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Marlena S","surname":"Bannick","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Joseph Adel Mattar","surname":"Banoub","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Miguel A","surname":"Barboza","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Suzanne Lyn","surname":"Barker-Collo","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Till Winfried","surname":"Bärnighausen","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Simon","surname":"Barquera","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Lope H","surname":"Barrero","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Quique","surname":"Bassat","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Sanjay","surname":"Basu","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Bernhard T","surname":"Baune","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Habtamu Wondifraw","surname":"Baynes","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Shahrzad","surname":"Bazargan-Hejazi","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Neeraj","surname":"Bedi","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ettore","surname":"Beghi","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Masoud","surname":"Behzadifar","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Meysam","surname":"Behzadifar","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Yannick","surname":"Béjot","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Bayu Begashaw","surname":"Bekele","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Abate Bekele","surname":"Belachew","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ezra","surname":"Belay","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Yihalem Abebe","surname":"Belay","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Michelle L","surname":"Bell","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Aminu K","surname":"Bello","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Derrick A","surname":"Bennett","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Isabela M","surname":"Bensenor","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Adam E","surname":"Berman","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Eduardo","surname":"Bernabe","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Robert S","surname":"Bernstein","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Gregory J","surname":"Bertolacci","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Mircea","surname":"Beuran","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Tina","surname":"Beyranvand","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ashish","surname":"Bhalla","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Suraj","surname":"Bhattarai","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Soumyadeeep","surname":"Bhaumik","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Zulfiqar A","surname":"Bhutta","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Belete","surname":"Biadgo","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Molly H","surname":"Biehl","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ali","surname":"Bijani","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Boris","surname":"Bikbov","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ver","surname":"Bilano","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Nigus","surname":"Bililign","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Muhammad Shahdaat","surname":"Bin Sayeed","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Donal","surname":"Bisanzio","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Tuhin","surname":"Biswas","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Brigette F","surname":"Blacker","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Berrak Bora","surname":"Basara","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Rohan","surname":"Borschmann","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Cristina","surname":"Bosetti","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Kayvan","surname":"Bozorgmehr","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Oliver J","surname":"Brady","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Luisa C","surname":"Brant","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Carol","surname":"Brayne","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Alexandra","surname":"Brazinova","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Nicholas J K","surname":"Breitborde","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Hermann","surname":"Brenner","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Paul Svitil","surname":"Briant","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Gabrielle","surname":"Britton","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Traolach","surname":"Brugha","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Reinhard","surname":"Busse","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Zahid A","surname":"Butt","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Charlton S K H","surname":"Callender","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ismael R","surname":"Campos-Nonato","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Julio Cesar","surname":"Campuzano Rincon","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jorge","surname":"Cano","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Mate","surname":"Car","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Rosario","surname":"Cárdenas","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Giulia","surname":"Carreras","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Juan J","surname":"Carrero","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Austin","surname":"Carter","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Félix","surname":"Carvalho","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Carlos A","surname":"Castañeda-Orjuela","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jacqueline","surname":"Castillo Rivas","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Chris D","surname":"Castle","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Clara","surname":"Castro","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Franz","surname":"Castro","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ferrán","surname":"Catalá-López","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ester","surname":"Cerin","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Yazan","surname":"Chaiah","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jung-Chen","surname":"Chang","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Fiona J","surname":"Charlson","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Pankaj","surname":"Chaturvedi","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Peggy Pei-Chia","surname":"Chiang","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Odgerel","surname":"Chimed-Ochir","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Vesper Hichilombwe","surname":"Chisumpa","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Abdulaal","surname":"Chitheer","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Rajiv","surname":"Chowdhury","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Hanne","surname":"Christensen","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Devasahayam J","surname":"Christopher","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Sheng-Chia","surname":"Chung","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Flavia M","surname":"Cicuttini","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Liliana G","surname":"Ciobanu","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Massimo","surname":"Cirillo","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Aaron J","surname":"Cohen","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Leslie Trumbull","surname":"Cooper","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Paolo Angelo","surname":"Cortesi","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Monica","surname":"Cortinovis","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ewerton","surname":"Cousin","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Benjamin C","surname":"Cowie","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Michael H","surname":"Criqui","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Elizabeth A","surname":"Cromwell","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Christopher Stephen","surname":"Crowe","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"John A","surname":"Crump","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Matthew","surname":"Cunningham","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Alemneh Kabeta","surname":"Daba","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Abel Fekadu","surname":"Dadi","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Lalit","surname":"Dandona","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Rakhi","surname":"Dandona","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Anh Kim","surname":"Dang","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Paul I","surname":"Dargan","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ahmad","surname":"Daryani","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Siddharth K","surname":"Das","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Rajat Das","surname":"Gupta","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"José Das","surname":"Neves","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Tamirat Tesfaye","surname":"Dasa","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Aditya Prasad","surname":"Dash","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Adrian C","surname":"Davis","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Nicole","surname":"Davis Weaver","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Dragos Virgil","surname":"Davitoiu","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Kairat","surname":"Davletov","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Fernando Pio","surname":"De La Hoz","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jan-Walter","surname":"De Neve","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Meaza Girma","surname":"Degefa","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Louisa","surname":"Degenhardt","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Tizta T","surname":"Degfie","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Selina","surname":"Deiparine","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Gebre Teklemariam","surname":"Demoz","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Balem Betsu","surname":"Demtsu","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Edgar","surname":"Denova-Gutiérrez","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Kebede","surname":"Deribe","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Nikolaos","surname":"Dervenis","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Don C","surname":"Des Jarlais","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Getenet Ayalew","surname":"Dessie","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Subhojit","surname":"Dey","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Samath D","surname":"Dharmaratne","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Daniel","surname":"Dicker","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Mesfin Tadese","surname":"Dinberu","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Eric L","surname":"Ding","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"M Ashworth","surname":"Dirac","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Shirin","surname":"Djalalinia","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Klara","surname":"Dokova","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"David Teye","surname":"Doku","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Christl A","surname":"Donnelly","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"E Ray","surname":"Dorsey","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Pratik P","surname":"Doshi","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Dirk","surname":"Douwes-Schultz","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Kerrie E","surname":"Doyle","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Tim R","surname":"Driscoll","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Manisha","surname":"Dubey","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Eleonora","surname":"Dubljanin","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Eyasu Ejeta","surname":"Duken","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Bruce B","surname":"Duncan","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Andre R","surname":"Duraes","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Hedyeh","surname":"Ebrahimi","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Soheil","surname":"Ebrahimpour","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Dumessa","surname":"Edessa","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"David","surname":"Edvardsson","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Anne Elise","surname":"Eggen","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Charbel","surname":"El Bcheraoui","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Maysaa","surname":"El Sayed Zaki","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ziad","surname":"El-Khatib","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Hajer","surname":"Elkout","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Christian Lycke","surname":"Ellingsen","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Matthias","surname":"Endres","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Aman Yesuf","surname":"Endries","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Benjamin","surname":"Er","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Holly E","surname":"Erskine","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Babak","surname":"Eshrati","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Sharareh","surname":"Eskandarieh","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Reza","surname":"Esmaeili","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Alireza","surname":"Esteghamati","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Mahdi","surname":"Fakhar","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Hamed","surname":"Fakhim","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Mahbobeh","surname":"Faramarzi","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Mohammad","surname":"Fareed","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Farzaneh","surname":"Farhadi","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Carla Sofia E sá","surname":"Farinha","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Andre","surname":"Faro","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Maryam S","surname":"Farvid","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Farshad","surname":"Farzadfar","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Mohammad Hosein","surname":"Farzaei","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Valery L","surname":"Feigin","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Andrea B","surname":"Feigl","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Netsanet","surname":"Fentahun","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Seyed-Mohammad","surname":"Fereshtehnejad","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Eduarda","surname":"Fernandes","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Joao C","surname":"Fernandes","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Alize J","surname":"Ferrari","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Garumma Tolu","surname":"Feyissa","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Irina","surname":"Filip","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Samuel","surname":"Finegold","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Florian","surname":"Fischer","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Christina","surname":"Fitzmaurice","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Nataliya A","surname":"Foigt","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Kyle J","surname":"Foreman","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Carla","surname":"Fornari","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Tahvi D","surname":"Frank","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Takeshi","surname":"Fukumoto","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"John E","surname":"Fuller","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Nancy","surname":"Fullman","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Thomas","surname":"Fürst","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"João M","surname":"Furtado","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Neal D","surname":"Futran","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Silvano","surname":"Gallus","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Alberto L","surname":"Garcia-Basteiro","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Miguel A","surname":"Garcia-Gordillo","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"William M","surname":"Gardner","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Abadi Kahsu","surname":"Gebre","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Tsegaye Tewelde","surname":"Gebrehiwot","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Amanuel Tesfay","surname":"Gebremedhin","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Bereket","surname":"Gebremichael","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Teklu Gebrehiwo","surname":"Gebremichael","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Tilayie Feto","surname":"Gelano","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Johanna M","surname":"Geleijnse","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ricard","surname":"Genova-Maleras","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Yilma Chisha Dea","surname":"Geramo","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Peter W","surname":"Gething","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Kebede Embaye","surname":"Gezae","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Mohammad Rasoul","surname":"Ghadami","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Reza","surname":"Ghadimi","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Khalil","surname":"Ghasemi Falavarjani","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Maryam","surname":"Ghasemi-Kasman","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Mamata","surname":"Ghimire","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Katherine B","surname":"Gibney","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Paramjit Singh","surname":"Gill","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Tiffany K","surname":"Gill","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Richard F","surname":"Gillum","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ibrahim Abdelmageed","surname":"Ginawi","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Maurice","surname":"Giroud","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Giorgia","surname":"Giussani","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Shifalika","surname":"Goenka","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ellen M","surname":"Goldberg","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Srinivas","surname":"Goli","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Hector","surname":"Gómez-Dantés","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Philimon N","surname":"Gona","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Sameer Vali","surname":"Gopalani","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Taren M","surname":"Gorman","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Atsushi","surname":"Goto","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Alessandra C","surname":"Goulart","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Elena V","surname":"Gnedovskaya","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ayman","surname":"Grada","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Giuseppe","surname":"Grosso","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Harish Chander","surname":"Gugnani","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Andre Luiz Sena","surname":"Guimaraes","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Yuming","surname":"Guo","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Prakash C","surname":"Gupta","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Rahul","surname":"Gupta","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Rajeev","surname":"Gupta","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Tanush","surname":"Gupta","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Reyna Alma","surname":"Gutiérrez","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Bishal","surname":"Gyawali","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Juanita A","surname":"Haagsma","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Nima","surname":"Hafezi-Nejad","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Tekleberhan B","surname":"Hagos","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Tewodros Tesfa","surname":"Hailegiyorgis","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Gessessew Bugssa","surname":"Hailu","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Arvin","surname":"Haj-Mirzaian","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Arya","surname":"Haj-Mirzaian","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Randah R","surname":"Hamadeh","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Samer","surname":"Hamidi","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Alexis J","surname":"Handal","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Graeme J","surname":"Hankey","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Hilda L","surname":"Harb","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Sivadasanpillai","surname":"Harikrishnan","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Josep Maria","surname":"Haro","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Mehedi","surname":"Hasan","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Hadi","surname":"Hassankhani","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Hamid Yimam","surname":"Hassen","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Rasmus","surname":"Havmoeller","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Roderick J","surname":"Hay","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Simon I","surname":"Hay","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Yihua","surname":"He","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Akbar","surname":"Hedayatizadeh-Omran","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Mohamed I","surname":"Hegazy","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Behzad","surname":"Heibati","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Mohsen","surname":"Heidari","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Delia","surname":"Hendrie","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Andualem","surname":"Henok","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Nathaniel J","surname":"Henry","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Claudiu","surname":"Herteliu","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Fatemeh","surname":"Heydarpour","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Pouria","surname":"Heydarpour","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Sousan","surname":"Heydarpour","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Desalegn Tsegaw","surname":"Hibstu","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Hans W","surname":"Hoek","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Michael K","surname":"Hole","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Enayatollah","surname":"Homaie Rad","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Praveen","surname":"Hoogar","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"H Dean","surname":"Hosgood","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Seyed Mostafa","surname":"Hosseini","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Mehdi","surname":"Hosseinzadeh","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Mihaela","surname":"Hostiuc","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Sorin","surname":"Hostiuc","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Peter J","surname":"Hotez","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Damian G","surname":"Hoy","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Thomas","surname":"Hsiao","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Guoqing","surname":"Hu","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"John J","surname":"Huang","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Abdullatif","surname":"Husseini","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Mohammedaman Mama","surname":"Hussen","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Susan","surname":"Hutfless","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Bulat","surname":"Idrisov","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Olayinka Stephen","surname":"Ilesanmi","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Usman","surname":"Iqbal","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Seyed Sina Naghibi","surname":"Irvani","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Caleb Mackay Salpeter","surname":"Irvine","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Nazrul","surname":"Islam","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Sheikh Mohammed Shariful","surname":"Islam","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Farhad","surname":"Islami","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Kathryn H","surname":"Jacobsen","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Leila","surname":"Jahangiry","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Nader","surname":"Jahanmehr","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Sudhir Kumar","surname":"Jain","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Mihajlo","surname":"Jakovljevic","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Moti Tolera","surname":"Jalu","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Spencer L","surname":"James","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Mehdi","surname":"Javanbakht","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Achala Upendra","surname":"Jayatilleke","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Panniyammakal","surname":"Jeemon","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Kathy J","surname":"Jenkins","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ravi Prakash","surname":"Jha","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Vivekanand","surname":"Jha","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Catherine O","surname":"Johnson","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Sarah C","surname":"Johnson","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jost B","surname":"Jonas","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ankur","surname":"Joshi","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jacek Jerzy","surname":"Jozwiak","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Suresh Banayya","surname":"Jungari","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Mikk","surname":"Jürisson","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Zubair","surname":"Kabir","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Rajendra","surname":"Kadel","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Amaha","surname":"Kahsay","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Rizwan","surname":"Kalani","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Manoochehr","surname":"Karami","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Behzad","surname":"Karami Matin","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"André","surname":"Karch","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Corine","surname":"Karema","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Hamidreza","surname":"Karimi-Sari","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Amir","surname":"Kasaeian","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Dessalegn H","surname":"Kassa","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Getachew Mullu","surname":"Kassa","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Tesfaye Dessale","surname":"Kassa","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Nicholas J","surname":"Kassebaum","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Srinivasa Vittal","surname":"Katikireddi","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Anil","surname":"Kaul","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Zhila","surname":"Kazemi","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ali Kazemi","surname":"Karyani","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Dhruv Satish","surname":"Kazi","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Adane Teshome","surname":"Kefale","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Peter Njenga","surname":"Keiyoro","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Grant Rodgers","surname":"Kemp","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Andre Pascal","surname":"Kengne","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Andre","surname":"Keren","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Chandrasekharan Nair","surname":"Kesavachandran","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Yousef Saleh","surname":"Khader","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Behzad","surname":"Khafaei","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Morteza Abdullatif","surname":"Khafaie","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Alireza","surname":"Khajavi","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Nauman","surname":"Khalid","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ibrahim A","surname":"Khalil","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ejaz Ahmad","surname":"Khan","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Muhammad Shahzeb","surname":"Khan","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Muhammad Ali","surname":"Khan","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Young-Ho","surname":"Khang","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Mona M","surname":"Khater","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Abdullah T","surname":"Khoja","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ardeshir","surname":"Khosravi","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Mohammad Hossein","surname":"Khosravi","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jagdish","surname":"Khubchandani","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Aliasghar A","surname":"Kiadaliri","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Getiye D","surname":"Kibret","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Zelalem Teklemariam","surname":"Kidanemariam","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Daniel N","surname":"Kiirithio","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Daniel","surname":"Kim","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Young-Eun","surname":"Kim","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Yun Jin","surname":"Kim","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ruth W","surname":"Kimokoti","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Yohannes","surname":"Kinfu","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Adnan","surname":"Kisa","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Katarzyna","surname":"Kissimova-Skarbek","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Mika","surname":"Kivimäki","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ann Kristin Skrindo","surname":"Knudsen","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jonathan M","surname":"Kocarnik","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Sonali","surname":"Kochhar","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Yoshihiro","surname":"Kokubo","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Tufa","surname":"Kolola","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jacek A","surname":"Kopec","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Parvaiz A","surname":"Koul","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ai","surname":"Koyanagi","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Michael A","surname":"Kravchenko","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Kewal","surname":"Krishan","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Barthelemy","surname":"Kuate Defo","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Burcu","surname":"Kucuk Bicer","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"G Anil","surname":"Kumar","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Manasi","surname":"Kumar","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Pushpendra","surname":"Kumar","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Michael J","surname":"Kutz","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Igor","surname":"Kuzin","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Hmwe Hmwe","surname":"Kyu","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Deepesh P","surname":"Lad","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Sheetal D","surname":"Lad","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Alessandra","surname":"Lafranconi","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Dharmesh Kumar","surname":"Lal","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ratilal","surname":"Lalloo","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Tea","surname":"Lallukka","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jennifer O","surname":"Lam","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Faris Hasan","surname":"Lami","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Van C","surname":"Lansingh","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Sonia","surname":"Lansky","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Heidi J","surname":"Larson","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Arman","surname":"Latifi","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Kathryn Mei-Ming","surname":"Lau","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jeffrey V","surname":"Lazarus","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Georgy","surname":"Lebedev","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Paul H","surname":"Lee","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"James","surname":"Leigh","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Mostafa","surname":"Leili","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Cheru Tesema","surname":"Leshargie","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Shanshan","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Yichong","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Juan","surname":"Liang","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Lee-Ling","surname":"Lim","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Stephen S","surname":"Lim","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Miteku Andualem","surname":"Limenih","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Shai","surname":"Linn","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Shiwei","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Yang","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Rakesh","surname":"Lodha","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Chris","surname":"Lonsdale","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Alan D","surname":"Lopez","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Stefan","surname":"Lorkowski","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Paulo A","surname":"Lotufo","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Rafael","surname":"Lozano","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Raimundas","surname":"Lunevicius","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Stefan","surname":"Ma","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Erlyn Rachelle King","surname":"Macarayan","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Mark T","surname":"Mackay","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jennifer H","surname":"MacLachlan","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Emilie R","surname":"Maddison","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Fabiana","surname":"Madotto","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Hassan","surname":"Magdy Abd El Razek","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Muhammed","surname":"Magdy Abd El Razek","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Dhaval P","surname":"Maghavani","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Marek","surname":"Majdan","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Reza","surname":"Majdzadeh","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Azeem","surname":"Majeed","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Reza","surname":"Malekzadeh","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Deborah Carvalho","surname":"Malta","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ana-Laura","surname":"Manda","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Luiz Garcia","surname":"Mandarano-Filho","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Helena","surname":"Manguerra","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Mohammad Ali","surname":"Mansournia","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Chabila Christopher","surname":"Mapoma","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Dadi","surname":"Marami","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Joemer C","surname":"Maravilla","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Wagner","surname":"Marcenes","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Laurie","surname":"Marczak","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ashley","surname":"Marks","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Guy B","surname":"Marks","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Gabriel","surname":"Martinez","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Francisco Rogerlândio","surname":"Martins-Melo","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ira","surname":"Martopullo","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Winfried","surname":"März","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Melvin B","surname":"Marzan","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Joseph R","surname":"Masci","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Benjamin Ballard","surname":"Massenburg","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Manu Raj","surname":"Mathur","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Prashant","surname":"Mathur","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Richard","surname":"Matzopoulos","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Pallab K","surname":"Maulik","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Mohsen","surname":"Mazidi","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Colm","surname":"McAlinden","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"John J","surname":"McGrath","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Martin","surname":"McKee","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Brian J","surname":"McMahon","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Suresh","surname":"Mehata","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Man Mohan","surname":"Mehndiratta","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ravi","surname":"Mehrotra","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Kala M","surname":"Mehta","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Varshil","surname":"Mehta","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Tefera C","surname":"Mekonnen","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Addisu","surname":"Melese","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Mulugeta","surname":"Melku","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Peter T N","surname":"Memiah","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ziad A","surname":"Memish","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Walter","surname":"Mendoza","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Desalegn Tadese","surname":"Mengistu","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Getnet","surname":"Mengistu","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"George A","surname":"Mensah","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Seid Tiku","surname":"Mereta","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Atte","surname":"Meretoja","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Tuomo J","surname":"Meretoja","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Tomislav","surname":"Mestrovic","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Haftay Berhane","surname":"Mezgebe","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Bartosz","surname":"Miazgowski","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Tomasz","surname":"Miazgowski","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Anoushka I","surname":"Millear","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ted R","surname":"Miller","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Molly Katherine","surname":"Miller-Petrie","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"G K","surname":"Mini","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Parvaneh","surname":"Mirabi","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Mojde","surname":"Mirarefin","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Andreea","surname":"Mirica","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Erkin M","surname":"Mirrakhimov","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Awoke Temesgen","surname":"Misganaw","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Habtamu","surname":"Mitiku","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Babak","surname":"Moazen","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Karzan Abdulmuhsin","surname":"Mohammad","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Moslem","surname":"Mohammadi","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Noushin","surname":"Mohammadifard","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Mohammed A","surname":"Mohammed","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Shafiu","surname":"Mohammed","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Viswanathan","surname":"Mohan","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ali H","surname":"Mokdad","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Mariam","surname":"Molokhia","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Lorenzo","surname":"Monasta","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ghobad","surname":"Moradi","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Maziar","surname":"Moradi-Lakeh","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Mehdi","surname":"Moradinazar","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Paula","surname":"Moraga","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Lidia","surname":"Morawska","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ilais","surname":"Moreno Velásquez","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Joana","surname":"Morgado-Da-Costa","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Shane Douglas","surname":"Morrison","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Marilita M","surname":"Moschos","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Simin","surname":"Mouodi","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Seyyed Meysam","surname":"Mousavi","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Kindie Fentahun","surname":"Muchie","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ulrich Otto","surname":"Mueller","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Satinath","surname":"Mukhopadhyay","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Kate","surname":"Muller","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"John Everett","surname":"Mumford","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jonah","surname":"Musa","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Kamarul Imran","surname":"Musa","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ghulam","surname":"Mustafa","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Saravanan","surname":"Muthupandian","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jean B","surname":"Nachega","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Gabriele","surname":"Nagel","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Aliya","surname":"Naheed","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Azin","surname":"Nahvijou","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Gurudatta","surname":"Naik","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Sanjeev","surname":"Nair","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Farid","surname":"Najafi","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Luigi","surname":"Naldi","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Hae Sung","surname":"Nam","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Vinay","surname":"Nangia","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jobert Richie","surname":"Nansseu","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Bruno Ramos","surname":"Nascimento","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Gopalakrishnan","surname":"Natarajan","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Nahid","surname":"Neamati","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ionut","surname":"Negoi","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ruxandra Irina","surname":"Negoi","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Subas","surname":"Neupane","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Charles R J","surname":"Newton","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Frida N","surname":"Ngalesoni","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Josephine W","surname":"Ngunjiri","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Anh Quynh","surname":"Nguyen","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Grant","surname":"Nguyen","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ha Thu","surname":"Nguyen","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Huong Thanh","surname":"Nguyen","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Long Hoang","surname":"Nguyen","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Minh","surname":"Nguyen","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Trang Huyen","surname":"Nguyen","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Emma","surname":"Nichols","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Dina Nur Anggraini","surname":"Ningrum","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Yirga Legesse","surname":"Nirayo","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Molly R","surname":"Nixon","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Nomonde","surname":"Nolutshungu","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Shuhei","surname":"Nomura","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ole F","surname":"Norheim","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Mehdi","surname":"Noroozi","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Bo","surname":"Norrving","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jean Jacques","surname":"Noubiap","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Hamid Reza","surname":"Nouri","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Malihe","surname":"Nourollahpour Shiadeh","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Mohammad Reza","surname":"Nowroozi","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Peter S","surname":"Nyasulu","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Christopher M","surname":"Odell","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Richard","surname":"Ofori-Asenso","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Felix Akpojene","surname":"Ogbo","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"In-Hwan","surname":"Oh","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Olanrewaju","surname":"Oladimeji","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Andrew T","surname":"Olagunju","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Pedro R","surname":"Olivares","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Helen Elizabeth","surname":"Olsen","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Bolajoko Olubukunola","surname":"Olusanya","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jacob Olusegun","surname":"Olusanya","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Kanyin L","surname":"Ong","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Sok King Sk","surname":"Ong","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Eyal","surname":"Oren","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Heather M","surname":"Orpana","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Alberto","surname":"Ortiz","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Justin R","surname":"Ortiz","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Stanislav S","surname":"Otstavnov","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Simon","surname":"Øverland","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Mayowa Ojo","surname":"Owolabi","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Raziye","surname":"Özdemir","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Mahesh","surname":"P A","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Rosana","surname":"Pacella","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Smita","surname":"Pakhale","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Abhijit P","surname":"Pakhare","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Amir H","surname":"Pakpour","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Adrian","surname":"Pana","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Songhomitra","surname":"Panda-Jonas","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jeyaraj Durai","surname":"Pandian","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Andrea","surname":"Parisi","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Eun-Kee","surname":"Park","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Charles D H","surname":"Parry","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Hadi","surname":"Parsian","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Shanti","surname":"Patel","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Sanghamitra","surname":"Pati","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"George C","surname":"Patton","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Vishnupriya Rao","surname":"Paturi","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Katherine R","surname":"Paulson","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Alexandre","surname":"Pereira","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"David M","surname":"Pereira","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Norberto","surname":"Perico","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Konrad","surname":"Pesudovs","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Max","surname":"Petzold","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Michael R","surname":"Phillips","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Frédéric B","surname":"Piel","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"David M","surname":"Pigott","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Julian David","surname":"Pillay","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Meghdad","surname":"Pirsaheb","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Farhad","surname":"Pishgar","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Suzanne","surname":"Polinder","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Maarten J","surname":"Postma","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Akram","surname":"Pourshams","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Hossein","surname":"Poustchi","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ashwini","surname":"Pujar","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Swayam","surname":"Prakash","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Narayan","surname":"Prasad","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Caroline A","surname":"Purcell","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Mostafa","surname":"Qorbani","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Hedley","surname":"Quintana","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"D Alex","surname":"Quistberg","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Kirankumar Waman","surname":"Rade","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Amir","surname":"Radfar","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Anwar","surname":"Rafay","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Alireza","surname":"Rafiei","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Fakher","surname":"Rahim","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Kazem","surname":"Rahimi","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Afarin","surname":"Rahimi-Movaghar","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Mahfuzar","surname":"Rahman","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Mohammad Hifz Ur","surname":"Rahman","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Muhammad Aziz","surname":"Rahman","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Rajesh Kumar","surname":"Rai","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Sasa","surname":"Rajsic","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Usha","surname":"Ram","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Chhabi Lal","surname":"Ranabhat","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Prabhat","surname":"Ranjan","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Puja C","surname":"Rao","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"David Laith","surname":"Rawaf","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Salman","surname":"Rawaf","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Christian","surname":"Razo-García","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"K Srinath","surname":"Reddy","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Robert C","surname":"Reiner","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Marissa B","surname":"Reitsma","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Giuseppe","surname":"Remuzzi","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Andre M N","surname":"Renzaho","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Serge","surname":"Resnikoff","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Satar","surname":"Rezaei","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Shahab","surname":"Rezaeian","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Mohammad Sadegh","surname":"Rezai","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Seyed Mohammad","surname":"Riahi","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Antonio Luiz P","surname":"Ribeiro","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Maria Jesus","surname":"Rios-Blancas","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Kedir Teji","surname":"Roba","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Nicholas L S","surname":"Roberts","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Stephen R","surname":"Robinson","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Leonardo","surname":"Roever","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Luca","surname":"Ronfani","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Gholamreza","surname":"Roshandel","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ali","surname":"Rostami","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Dietrich","surname":"Rothenbacher","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ambuj","surname":"Roy","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Enrico","surname":"Rubagotti","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Perminder S","surname":"Sachdev","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Basema","surname":"Saddik","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ehsan","surname":"Sadeghi","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Hosein","surname":"Safari","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Mahdi","surname":"Safdarian","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Sare","surname":"Safi","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Saeid","surname":"Safiri","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Rajesh","surname":"Sagar","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Amirhossein","surname":"Sahebkar","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Mohammad Ali","surname":"Sahraian","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Nasir","surname":"Salam","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Joseph S","surname":"Salama","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Payman","surname":"Salamati","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Raphael De Freitas","surname":"Saldanha","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Zikria","surname":"Saleem","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Yahya","surname":"Salimi","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Sundeep Santosh","surname":"Salvi","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Inbal","surname":"Salz","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Evanson Zondani","surname":"Sambala","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Abdallah M","surname":"Samy","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Juan","surname":"Sanabria","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Maria Dolores","surname":"Sanchez-Niño","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Damian Francesco","surname":"Santomauro","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Itamar S","surname":"Santos","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"João Vasco","surname":"Santos","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Milena M Santric","surname":"Milicevic","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Bruno Piassi","surname":"Sao Jose","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Abdur Razzaque","surname":"Sarker","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Rodrigo","surname":"Sarmiento-Suárez","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Nizal","surname":"Sarrafzadegan","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Benn","surname":"Sartorius","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Shahabeddin","surname":"Sarvi","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Brijesh","surname":"Sathian","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Maheswar","surname":"Satpathy","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Arundhati R","surname":"Sawant","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Monika","surname":"Sawhney","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Sonia","surname":"Saxena","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Mehdi","surname":"Sayyah","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Elke","surname":"Schaeffner","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Maria Inês","surname":"Schmidt","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ione J C","surname":"Schneider","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ben","surname":"Schöttker","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Aletta Elisabeth","surname":"Schutte","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"David C","surname":"Schwebel","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Falk","surname":"Schwendicke","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"James G","surname":"Scott","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Mario","surname":"Sekerija","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Sadaf G","surname":"Sepanlou","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Edson","surname":"Serván-Mori","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Seyedmojtaba","surname":"Seyedmousavi","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Hosein","surname":"Shabaninejad","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Katya Anne","surname":"Shackelford","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Azadeh","surname":"Shafieesabet","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Mehdi","surname":"Shahbazi","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Amira A","surname":"Shaheen","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Masood Ali","surname":"Shaikh","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Mehran","surname":"Shams-Beyranvand","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Mohammadbagher","surname":"Shamsi","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Morteza","surname":"Shamsizadeh","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Kiomars","surname":"Sharafi","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Mehdi","surname":"Sharif","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Mahdi","surname":"Sharif-Alhoseini","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Rajesh","surname":"Sharma","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jun","surname":"She","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Aziz","surname":"Sheikh","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Peilin","surname":"Shi","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Mekonnen Sisay","surname":"Shiferaw","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Mika","surname":"Shigematsu","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Rahman","surname":"Shiri","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Reza","surname":"Shirkoohi","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ivy","surname":"Shiue","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Farhad","surname":"Shokraneh","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Mark G","surname":"Shrime","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Si","surname":"Si","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Soraya","surname":"Siabani","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Tariq J","surname":"Siddiqi","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Inga Dora","surname":"Sigfusdottir","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Rannveig","surname":"Sigurvinsdottir","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Donald H","surname":"Silberberg","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Diego Augusto Santos","surname":"Silva","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"João Pedro","surname":"Silva","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Natacha Torres Da","surname":"Silva","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Dayane Gabriele Alves","surname":"Silveira","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jasvinder A","surname":"Singh","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Narinder Pal","surname":"Singh","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Prashant Kumar","surname":"Singh","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Virendra","surname":"Singh","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Dhirendra Narain","surname":"Sinha","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Karen","surname":"Sliwa","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Mari","surname":"Smith","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Badr Hasan","surname":"Sobaih","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Soheila","surname":"Sobhani","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Eugène","surname":"Sobngwi","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Samir S","surname":"Soneji","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Moslem","surname":"Soofi","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Reed J D","surname":"Sorensen","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Joan B","surname":"Soriano","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ireneous N","surname":"Soyiri","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Luciano A","surname":"Sposato","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Chandrashekhar T","surname":"Sreeramareddy","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Vinay","surname":"Srinivasan","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jeffrey D","surname":"Stanaway","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Vladimir I","surname":"Starodubov","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Vasiliki","surname":"Stathopoulou","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Dan J","surname":"Stein","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Caitlyn","surname":"Steiner","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Leo G","surname":"Stewart","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Mark A","surname":"Stokes","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Michelle L","surname":"Subart","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Agus","surname":"Sudaryanto","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Mu'awiyyah Babale","surname":"Sufiyan","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Patrick John","surname":"Sur","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ipsita","surname":"Sutradhar","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Bryan L","surname":"Sykes","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"P N","surname":"Sylaja","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Dillon O","surname":"Sylte","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Cassandra E I","surname":"Szoeke","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Rafael","surname":"Tabarés-Seisdedos","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Takahiro","surname":"Tabuchi","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Santosh Kumar","surname":"Tadakamadla","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ken","surname":"Takahashi","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Nikhil","surname":"Tandon","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Segen Gebremeskel","surname":"Tassew","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Nuno","surname":"Taveira","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Arash","surname":"Tehrani-Banihashemi","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Tigist Gashaw","surname":"Tekalign","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Merhawi Gebremedhin","surname":"Tekle","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Mohamad-Hani","surname":"Temsah","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Omar","surname":"Temsah","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Abdullah Sulieman","surname":"Terkawi","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Manaye Yihune","surname":"Teshale","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Belay","surname":"Tessema","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Gizachew Assefa","surname":"Tessema","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Kavumpurathu Raman","surname":"Thankappan","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Sathish","surname":"Thirunavukkarasu","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Nihal","surname":"Thomas","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Amanda G","surname":"Thrift","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"George D","surname":"Thurston","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Binyam","surname":"Tilahun","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Quyen G","surname":"To","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ruoyan","surname":"Tobe-Gai","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Marcello","surname":"Tonelli","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Roman","surname":"Topor-Madry","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Anna E","surname":"Torre","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Miguel","surname":"Tortajada-Girbés","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Mathilde","surname":"Touvier","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Marcos Roberto","surname":"Tovani-Palone","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Bach Xuan","surname":"Tran","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Khanh Bao","surname":"Tran","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Suryakant","surname":"Tripathi","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Christopher E","surname":"Troeger","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Thomas Clement","surname":"Truelsen","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Nu Thi","surname":"Truong","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Afewerki Gebremeskel","surname":"Tsadik","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Derrick","surname":"Tsoi","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Lorainne","surname":"Tudor Car","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"E Murat","surname":"Tuzcu","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Stefanos","surname":"Tyrovolas","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Kingsley N","surname":"Ukwaja","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Irfan","surname":"Ullah","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Eduardo A","surname":"Undurraga","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Rachel L","surname":"Updike","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Muhammad Shariq","surname":"Usman","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Olalekan A","surname":"Uthman","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Selen Begüm","surname":"Uzun","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Muthiah","surname":"Vaduganathan","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Afsane","surname":"Vaezi","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Gaurang","surname":"Vaidya","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Pascual R","surname":"Valdez","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Elena","surname":"Varavikova","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Tommi Juhani","surname":"Vasankari","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Narayanaswamy","surname":"Venketasubramanian","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Santos","surname":"Villafaina","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Francesco S","surname":"Violante","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Sergey Konstantinovitch","surname":"Vladimirov","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Vasily","surname":"Vlassov","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Stein Emil","surname":"Vollset","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Theo","surname":"Vos","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Gregory R","surname":"Wagner","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Fasil Shiferaw","surname":"Wagnew","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Yasir","surname":"Waheed","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Mitchell Taylor","surname":"Wallin","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Judd L","surname":"Walson","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Yanping","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Yuan-Pang","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Molla Mesele","surname":"Wassie","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Elisabete","surname":"Weiderpass","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Robert G","surname":"Weintraub","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Fitsum","surname":"Weldegebreal","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Kidu Gidey","surname":"Weldegwergs","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Andrea","surname":"Werdecker","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Adhena Ayaliew","surname":"Werkneh","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"T Eoin","surname":"West","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ronny","surname":"Westerman","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Harvey A","surname":"Whiteford","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Justyna","surname":"Widecka","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Lauren B","surname":"Wilner","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Shadrach","surname":"Wilson","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Andrea Sylvia","surname":"Winkler","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Charles Shey","surname":"Wiysonge","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Charles D A","surname":"Wolfe","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Shouling","surname":"Wu","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Yun-Chun","surname":"Wu","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Grant M A","surname":"Wyper","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Denis","surname":"Xavier","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Gelin","surname":"Xu","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Simon","surname":"Yadgir","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ali","surname":"Yadollahpour","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Seyed Hossein","surname":"Yahyazadeh Jabbari","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Bereket","surname":"Yakob","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Lijing L","surname":"Yan","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Yuichiro","surname":"Yano","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Mehdi","surname":"Yaseri","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Yasin Jemal","surname":"Yasin","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Gökalp Kadri","surname":"Yentür","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Alex","surname":"Yeshaneh","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ebrahim M","surname":"Yimer","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Paul","surname":"Yip","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Biruck Desalegn","surname":"Yirsaw","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Engida","surname":"Yisma","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Naohiro","surname":"Yonemoto","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Gerald","surname":"Yonga","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Seok-Jun","surname":"Yoon","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Marcel","surname":"Yotebieng","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Mustafa Z","surname":"Younis","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Mahmoud","surname":"Yousefifard","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Chuanhua","surname":"Yu","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Vesna","surname":"Zadnik","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Zoubida","surname":"Zaidi","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Sojib Bin","surname":"Zaman","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Mohammad","surname":"Zamani","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Zohreh","surname":"Zare","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ayalew Jejaw","surname":"Zeleke","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Zerihun Menlkalew","surname":"Zenebe","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Anthony Lin","surname":"Zhang","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Kai","surname":"Zhang","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Maigeng","surname":"Zhou","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Sanjay","surname":"Zodpey","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Liesl Joanna","surname":"Zuhlke","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Mohsen","surname":"Naghavi","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Christopher J L","surname":"Murray","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}],"References depth 2":[{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Classifying the dead: toward a history of the registration of causes of death","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Family of international classifications","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Civil registration and vital statistics: progress in the data revolution for counting and accountability","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Trends and patterns of geographic variation in mortality from substance use disorders and intentional injuries among US counties, 1980-2014","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Changes in life expectancy in Russia in the mid-1990s","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Intentional injuries in the Eastern Mediterranean Region, 1990-2015: findings from the Global Burden of Disease 2015 study","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Quality comparison of electronic versus paper death certificates in France, 2010","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Use of electronic death certificates for influenza death surveillance","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"SDG 3: ensure healthy lives and promote wellbeing for all at all ages","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Moscow Declaration to end TB","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"WHO's First Global Conference on Air Pollution and Health","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Noncommunicable diseases and their risk factors. Third UN high-level meeting on NCDs","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"UN General Assembly high-level meeting on ending TB. Tuberculosis","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Population and fertility by age and sex for 195 countries, 1950-2017: a systematic analysis for the Global Burden of Disease Study 2017","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Guidelines for Accurate and Transparent Health Estimates Reporting: the GATHER statement","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Algorithms for enhancing public health utility of national causes-of-death data","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"ICD coding changes and discontinuities in trends in cause-specific mortality in six European countries, 1950-99","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Global, regional, and national age-sex specific mortality for 264 causes of death, 1980-2016: a systematic analysis for the Global Burden of Disease Study","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The Global Enteric Multicenter Study (GEMS) of diarrheal disease in infants and young children in developing countries: epidemiologic and clinical methods of the case/control study","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Standardization and decomposition of rates: a user's manual","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Global, regional, and national age-sex-specific mortality and life expectancy, 1950-2017: a systematic analysis for the Global Burden of Disease Study 2017","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Global, regional, and national comparative risk assessment of 84 behavioural, environmental and occupational, and metabolic risks or clusters of risks for 195 countries and territories, 1990-2017: a systematic analysis for the Global Burden of Disease Study 2017","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Health effects of overweight and obesity in 195 countries over 25 years","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Global burden of NAFLD and NASH: trends, predictions, risk factors and prevention","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The global obesity pandemic: shaped by global drivers and local environments","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Estimates of global and regional premature cardiovascular mortality in 2025","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Patchy progress on obesity prevention: emerging examples, entrenched barriers, and new thinking","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Lessons from 40 years' surveillance of influenza in England and Wales","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Burden of Clostridium difficile infection in the United States","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Global antibiotic consumption 2000 to 2010: an analysis of national pharmaceutical sales data","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Measuring and mapping the global burden of antimicrobial resistance","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Correlations and forecast of death tolls in the Syrian conflict","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Armed conflict as a public health problem","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Establishing the Africa Centres for Disease Control and Prevention: responding to Africa's health threats","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Estimates of global and regional prevalence of neural tube defects for 2015: a systematic analysis","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"A cluster-randomized controlled trial of a simplified multifaceted management program for individuals at high cardiovascular risk (SimCard Trial) in rural Tibet, China, and Haryana, India","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Essential medicines for universal health coverage","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Priority setting for health service coverage decisions supported by public spending: experience from the Philippines","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Fentanyls: are we missing the signs? Highly potent and on the rise in Europe","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Use of and barriers to access to opioid analgesics: a worldwide, regional, and national study","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Misuse of novel synthetic opioids: a deadly new trend","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Global health governance challenges 2016:are we ready?","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Recognizing sepsis as a global health priority:a WHO resolution","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Pain as a global public health priority","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Addressing the global tragedy of needless pain: rethinking the United Nations single convention on narcotic drugs","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Injury-related fatalities in China: an under-recognised public-health problem","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Global burden of cancers attributable to infections in 2012: a synthetic analysis","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Forecasting life expectancy, years of life lost, and all-cause and cause-specific mortality for 250 causes of death: reference and alternative scenarios for 2016-40 for 195 countries and territories","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"A global call from five countries to collaborate in antibiotic stewardship: united we succeed, divided we might fail","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Usefulness of mortality data in determining the geography and time trends of dementia","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Global, regional, and national incidence, prevalence, and years lived with disability for 310 diseases and injuries, 1990-2015: a systematic analysis for the Global Burden of Disease Study 2015","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Is the risk of Alzheimer's disease and dementia declining?","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"National estimates of the prevalence of Alzheimer's disease in the United States","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"A two-decade comparison of prevalence of dementia in individuals aged 65 years and older from three geographical areas of England: results of the Cognitive Function and Ageing Study I and II","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Trends in the incidence and prevalence of Alzheimer's disease, dementia, and cognitive impairment in the United States","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Direct estimates of cause-specific mortality fractions and rates of under-five deaths in the northern and southern regions of Nigeria by verbal autopsy interview","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Improving estimates of children living with HIV from the Spectrum AIDS Impact Model","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Global hepatitis report","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"MCEE-WHO methods and data sources for child causes of death 2000-2015. Department of Evidence, Information and Research (WHO, Geneva) and Maternal Child Epidemiology Estimation (MCEE)","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Estimates of global seasonal influenza-associated respiratory mortality: a modelling study","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1136/heartjnl-2017-312384","date":"1970-01-01","title":"National, regional and global mortality due to alcoholic cardiomyopathy in 2015","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Road safety: estimated number of road traffic deaths","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Falls","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Suicide data","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Quality improvement in public health: where are we now?","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]}]},{"doi":"10.1080/17441692.2014.890238","date":"1970-01-01","title":"La situacion economica: social determinants of contraceptive use in rural Honduras","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"'We do the impossible': women overcoming barriers to cervical cancer screening in rural Honduras-a positive deviance analysis","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Health disparities in Latin America and the Caribbean: the role of social and economic determinants","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Socio-economic differences in health, nutrition, and population","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Social conditions as fundamental causes of disease","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Categorizing and connecting strategies in qualitative data analysis","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Why so many americans are leaving the U.S. in 1 big chart: Visualizing our emigration problem","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Women's health disparities in Honduras: indicators and determinants","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Organized crime costs Central America billions","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Evaluating the impact of conditional cash transfer programs","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Access to contraceptive methods and prevalence of use","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"DNIC solo investiga y remite al MP el 20% de los homicidios","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The measurement and meaning of unintended pregnancy","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Unintended pregnancy: worldwide levels, trends, and outcomes","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Gender relations and reproductive decision making in Honduras","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Family planning and the burden of unintended pregnancies","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Nurse auxiliaries as providers of intrauterine devices for contraception in Guatemala and Honduras","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Munakampe MN, Zulu JM, Michelo C. Contraception and abortion knowledge, attitudes and practices among adolescents from low and middle-income countries: a systematic review. BMC Health Serv Res. 2018;18(1).","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"10.15585/mmwr.mm6552e1","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Zika virus:10 public health achievements in 2016 and future priorities","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/j.rhm.2016.11.008","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Inequality, Zika epidemics, and the lack of reproductive rights in Latin America","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"10.1093/intqhc/mzm042","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Consolidated criteria for reporting qualitative research (COREQ): a 32-item checklist for interviews and focus groups","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"10.1371/journal.pone.0190024","date":"2017-12-06","title":"Women’s reproductive health knowledge, attitudes and practices in relation to the Zika virus outbreak in northeast Brazil","abstract":"Objectives\nTo assess knowledge, pregnancy attitudes and contraceptive practices in relation to the Zika virus outbreak in Brazil.\n\n\nMethods\nWe interviewed 526 women 18 to 49 years old in primary health services in a Northeastern capital of Brazil, in 2016. They provided information about their knowledge of Zika transmission and health consequences, their receipt of counseling related to sexual and perinatal transmission of Zika, their pregnancy intentions and reassessment of contraceptive options in the context of the Zika virus outbreak.\n\n\nResults\nAwareness about Zika congenital syndrome was high, but knowledge about sexual transmission was low.\n\n Few women had changed pregnancy intentions or contraceptive practices in response to Zika.\n\n Pregnant women were more likely to access counseling about family planning, condom use and pregnancy postponement due to Zika virus than non-pregnant women, which may suggest that health system responses followed pregnancy occurrence.\n\n\nConclusions\nWe observed missed opportunities for prevention of perinatal transmission of Zika virus through behavioral change, including effective contraception to prevent pregnancy and condoms to prevent perinatal transmission, as a complement to vector control.\n\n\n","id":"PMC5752017","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Public Library of Science","authors":[{"firstname":"Ana Luiza Vilela","surname":"Borges","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Caroline","surname":"Moreau","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Caroline","surname":"Moreau","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Anne","surname":"Burke","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Osmara Alves","surname":"dos Santos","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Christiane Borges","surname":"Chofakian","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jacobus P.","surname":"van Wouwe","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Jacobus P.","surname":"van Wouwe","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"NULL","surname":"NULL","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"NULL","surname":"NULL","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"NULL","surname":"NULL","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}],"References depth 2":[{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Women's reproductive health knowledge, attitudes and practices in relation to the Zika virus outbreak in northeast Brazil","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]}]},{"doi":"10.1002/ijgo.13045","date":"1970-01-01","title":"A qualitative study of the experiences of pregnant women in accessing healthcare services during the Zika virus epidemic in Villavicencio, Colombia, 2015–2016","abstract":"Objective\nTo explore the perceptions and experiences of pregnant women in accessing healthcare services during the epidemic in Colombia during 2015–2016.\nMethods\nA qualitative study using semistructured interviews was conducted in Villavicencio.\n\n Six women who had been diagnosed with Zika virus infection during their pregnancies and whose fetus had suspected microcephaly participated in the investigation.\n\n Grounded theory was used and thematic content analysis was made for each category identified.\n\n\nResults\nThree main themes affecting access to healthcare services were identified: (1) women knew basic information about the virus, but it was limited; (2) access to services was delayed due to their lack of availability or limited supply in the municipality; and (3) most of the participants made out?of?pocket payments to get access to services that were not provided.\n\n\nConclusions\nSeveral gaps were identified in the provision of healthcare services to pregnant women during the Zika epidemic.\n\n Policy makers need to utilize the results from affected communities to develop and implement public policies that adapt and respond to their priorities and needs.\n\n\n","id":"PMC7065052","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"John Wiley and Sons Inc.","authors":[{"firstname":"Hector M.","surname":"Gomez","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Carlos","surname":"Mejia Arbelaez","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jovana A.","surname":"Ocampo Cañas","email":"ja.ocampo@uniandes.edu.co","contributions":"1"}],"References depth 2":[{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Microcephaly and Zika virus infection","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Zika virus and birth defects:reviewing the evidence for causality","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Congenital Zika Syndrome &amp; Other Birth Defects","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Epidemiology of Zika virus, 1947-2007","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Zika virus infection complicated by Guillain-Barre syndrome - case report, French Polynesia, December 2013","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Zika virus in the Americas:yet another arbovirus threat","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"A Socio-economic Impact Assessment of the Zika Virus in Latin America and the Caribbean: with a focus on Brazil, Colombia and Suriname","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Zika virus: A public health threat","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Zika Cumulative Cases - 29-December","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Weekly epidemilogical bulletin No. 52","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Weekly epidemilogical bulletin No. 29","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Public Health Surveillance Protocol: Zika Virus Disease","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Response Plan against Zika Virus Fever","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Provisional Guidelines for the Clinical Approach of Pregnant Women Exposed to Zika virus in Colombia","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The prevention and control of HIV/AIDS, TB and vector-borne diseases in informal settlements: Challenges, opportunities and insights","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Dengue and health care access: The role of social determinants of health in dengue surveillance in Colombia","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The zika virus epidemic in Brazil: From discovery to future implications","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Zika virus: Transmission, detection, control, and prevention","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Women's reproductive health knowledge, attitudes and practices in relation to the Zika virus outbreak in northeast Brazil","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Patient-centred access to health care: Conceptualising access at the interface of health systems and populations","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Epidemiological bulletin, Villavicencio 2016: Behaviour of the Events of Interest in Public Health","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Prevalence of asymptomatic Zika virus infection: A systematic review","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Risk perceptions and health behavior","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Use of mass media campaigns to change health behaviour","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Neurological syndrome, congenital malformations, and Zika virus infection. Implications for public health in the Americas","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Possible association between Zika virus infection and microcephaly:Brazil, 2015","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Zika virus status report: Neurological syndrome and congenital anomalies","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Microcephaly and Zika virus: A clinical and epidemiological analysis of the current outbreak in Brazil","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Pregnancy management in the context of Zika virus infection","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Zika virus and birth defects:reviewing the evidence for causality","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Zika virus infection - Brazil and Colombia","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Zika virus","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Barriers in access to health care in managed competence models: A case study in Colombia","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Resolucion 0429 de 2016","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Resolucion No. 3280 de 2018","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"High out-of-pocket medical spending among the poor and elderly in nine developed countries","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]}]},{"doi":"10.1016/j.contraception.2017.01.005","date":"2017-01-16","title":"Contraceptive knowledge and use among women living in the poorest areas of five Mesoamerican countries","abstract":"Objective\nTo identify factors associated with contraceptive use among women in need living in the poorest areas in five Mesoamerican countries: Guatemala, Honduras, Nicaragua, Panama and State of Chiapas (Mexico).\n\n\nStudy design\nWe analyzed baseline data of 7049 women of childbearing age (15–49 years old) collected for the Salud Mesoamérica Initiative.\n\n Data collection took place in the 20% poorest municipalities of each country (July, 2012-August, 2013).\n\n\nResults\nWomen in the poorest areas were very poorly informed about family planning methods.\n\n Concern about side effects was the main reason for nonuse.\n\n Contraceptive use was lower among the extremely poor (&lt;$1.25 USD PPP per day) [odds ratio (OR): 0.75; confidence interval (CI): 0.59–0.96], those living more than 30 min away from a health facility (OR 0.71, CI: 0.58–0.86), and those of indigenous ethnicity (OR 0.50, CI: 0.39–0.64).\n\n Women who were insured and visited a health facility also had higher odds of using contraceptives than insured women who did not visit a health facility (OR 1.64, CI: 1.13–2.36).\n\n\nConclusions\nOur study showed low use of contraceptives in poor areas in Mesoamerica.\n\n We found the urgent need to improve services for people of indigenous ethnicity, low education, extreme poverty, the uninsured, and adolescents.\n\n It is necessary to address missed opportunities and offer contraceptives to all women who visit health facilities.\n\n Governments should aim to increase the public's knowledge of long-acting reversible contraception and offer a wider range of methods to increase contraceptive use.\n\n\nImplications\nWe show that unmet need for contraception is higher among the poorest and describe factors associated with low use.\n\n Our results call for increased investments in programs and policies targeting the poor to decrease their unmet need.\n\n\n","id":"PMC5493184","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Elsevier","authors":[{"firstname":"Diego","surname":"Rios-Zertuche","email":"diegori@iadb.org","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Laura C.","surname":"Blanco","email":"mina1001@hotmail.com","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Paola","surname":"Zúñiga-Brenes","email":"mpzuniga@iadb.org","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Erin B.","surname":"Palmisano","email":"palmie@uw.edu","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Danny V.","surname":"Colombara","email":"dvc2@uw.edu","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ali H.","surname":"Mokdad","email":"mokdaa@uw.edu","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Emma","surname":"Iriarte","email":"emmai@iadb.org","contributions":"1"}],"References depth 2":[{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Progress in reducing inequalities in reproductive, maternal, newborn, and child health in Latin America and the Caribbean: an unfinished agenda","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Sistema de salud de Guatemala","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Sistema de salud de Honduras","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Sistema de salud de Nicaragua","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Sistema de salud de Mexico","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Reclassifying causes of obstetric death in Mexico: a repeated cross-sectional study","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Salud Mesoamerica 2015 initiative: design, implementation, and baseline findings","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Understanding unmet need: history, theory, and measurement","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Unmet need for contraception: issues and challenges","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Communicating complex information: the interpretation of statistical interaction in multiple logistic regression analysis","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Goodness-of-fit test for a logistic regression model fitted using survey sample data","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Goodness of link tests for generalized linear models","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Meeting the family planning needs of postpartum women","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Tailored health messaging improves contraceptive continuation and adherence: results from a randomized controlled trial","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Long-acting reversible contraceptives: not only effective, but also a cost-effective option for the National Health Service","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Adolescents and long-acting reversible contraception: lessons from Mexico","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The impact of clinician education on IUD uptake, knowledge and attitudes: results of a randomized trial","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The relationship of age and place of delivery with postpartum contraception prior to discharge in Mexico: a retrospective cohort study","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Heterogeneous impact of the &quot;Seguro popular&quot; program on the utilization of obstetrical services in Mexico, 2001-2006: a multinomial probit model with a discrete endogenous variable","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The Oportunidades conditional cash transfer program: effects on pregnancy and contraceptive use among young rural women in Mexico","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Comparison of family-planning service quality reported by adolescents and young adult women in Mexico","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"What does not work in adolescent sexual and reproductive health: a review of evidence on interventions commonly accepted as best practices","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Speizer IS, Irani L, Barden-O'Fallon J, et al. Inconsistent fertility motivations and contraceptive use behaviors among women in Honduras. Reprod Health. 2009;6:19. 10.1186/1742-4755-6-19.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"10.3109/13625187.2015.1137281","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Non-hormonal and hormonal intrauterine contraception: survey of patients' perceptions in four Latin American countries","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/j.ejogrb.2018.07.017","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Zika knowledge and preventive practices among reproductive-age women from Lambayeque, Peru","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"10.1056/NEJMra1808246","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Zika virus infection - after the pandemic","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"10.1055/s-0036-1592068","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Family planning and Zika virus: the power of prevention","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"10.1590/1413-81232017228.04252016","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Maltreatment and discrimination in induced abortion care: perception of women in Teresina, state of Piaui, Brazil","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Sebert Kuhlmann A, Shato T, Fu Q, Sierra M. Intimate partner violence, pregnancy intention and contraceptive use in Honduras. Contraception. 2019;100(2):137-41. 10.1016/j.contraception.2019.03.050.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"10.1186/s12960-016-0106-y","date":"2016-03-04","title":"Systematic review on human resources for health interventions to improve maternal health outcomes: evidence from low- and middle-income countries","abstract":"There is a broad consensus and evidence that shows qualified, accessible, and responsive human resources for health (HRH) can make a major impact on the health of the populations.\n At the same time, there is widespread recognition that HRH crises particularly in low- and middle-income countries (LMICs) impede the achievement of better health outcomes/targets.\n In order to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), equitable access to a skilled and motivated health worker within a performing health system is need to be ensured.\n This review contributes to the vast pool of literature towards the assessment of HRH for maternal health and is focused on interventions delivered by skilled birth attendants (SBAs).\n Studies were included if (a) any HRH interventions in management system, policy, finance, education, partnership, and leadership were implemented; (b) these were related to SBA; (c) reported outcomes related to maternal health; (d) the studies were conducted in LMICs; and (e) studies were in English.\n Studies were excluded if traditional birth attendants and/or community health workers were trained.\n The review identified 25 studies which revealed reasons for poor maternal health outcomes in LMICs despite the efforts and policies implemented throughout these years.\n This review suggested an urgent and immediate need for formative evidence-based research on effective HRH interventions for improved maternal health outcomes.\n Other initiatives such as education and empowerment of women, alleviating poverty, establishing gender equality, and provision of infrastructure, equipment, drugs, and supplies are all integral components that are required to achieve SDGs by reducing maternal mortality and improving maternal health.\n","id":"PMC4789263","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"BioMed Central","authors":[{"firstname":"Zohra S.","surname":"Lassi","email":"zohra.lassi@adelaide.edu.au","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Nabiha B.","surname":"Musavi","email":"nabihamusavi@gmail.com","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Blerta","surname":"Maliqi","email":"maliqib@who.int","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Nadia","surname":"Mansoor","email":"nadia.mansoor@gmail.com","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Andres","surname":"de Francisco","email":"defranciscoa@who.int","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Kadidiatou","surname":"Toure","email":"tourek@who.int","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Zulfiqar A.","surname":"Bhutta","email":"zulfiqar.bhutta@sickkids.ca","contributions":"1"}],"References depth 2":[{"doi":"10.1136/bmj.331.7519.708","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Meeting Millennium Development Goals 3 and 5","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Maternal death and the Millennium Development Goals","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Chen L, Evans T, Anand S, Boufford JI, Brown H, Chowdhury M, Cueto M, Dare L, Dussault G, Elzinga G et al. Human resources for health: overcoming the crisis. Lancet. 2004;364(9449):1984-90.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Lewin S, Munabi-Babigumira S, Glenton C, Daniels K, Bosch-Capblanch X, van Wyk BE, Jensen J, Johansen M, Aja GN, Zwarenstein M et al. Lay health workers in primary and community health care for maternal and child health and the management of infectious diseases. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2010;3(Issue 3):CD00401.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.2471/BLT.13.118810","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Tackling health workforce challenges to universal health coverage: setting targets and measuring progress","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Travis P, Bennett S, Haines A, Pang T, Bhutta Z, Hyder AA, Pielemeier NR, Mills A, Evans T. Overcoming health-systems constraints to achieve the Millennium Development Goals. Lancet. 2004;364(9437):900-6.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1136/bmj.329.7462.394","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Can the Millennium Development Goals be attained?","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Bhutta ZA, Lassi ZS, Pariyo G, Huicho L. Global experience of community health workers for delivery of health related Millennium Development Goals: a systematic review, country case studies, and recommendations for integration into national health systems. In.: Global Health Workforce Alliance/World Health Organization. 2010. Available at http://www.who.int/workforcealliance/knowledge/publications/CHW_FullReport_2010.pdf?ua=1.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"World Health Organization. The world health report: working together for health. 2006.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Health worker recruitment and deployment in remote areas of Indonesia","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1186/1478-4491-2-13","date":"2004-09-17","title":"Imbalance in the health workforce","abstract":"Imbalance in the health workforce is a major concern in both developed and developing countries.\n It is a complex issue that encompasses a wide range of possible situations.\n This paper aims to contribute not only to a better understanding of the issues related to imbalance through a critical review of its definition and nature, but also to the development of an analytical framework.\n The framework emphasizes the number and types of factors affecting health workforce imbalances, and facilitates the development of policy tools and their assessment.\n Moreover, to facilitate comparisons between health workforce imbalances, a typology of imbalances is proposed that differentiates between profession/specialty imbalances, geographical imbalances, institutional and services imbalances and gender imbalances.\n","id":"PMC526216","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"BioMed Central","authors":[{"firstname":"Pascal","surname":"Zurn","email":"zurnp@who.int","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Mario R","surname":"Dal Poz","email":"dalpozm@who.int","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Barbara","surname":"Stilwell","email":"stilwellb@who.int","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Orvill","surname":"Adams","email":"adamso@who.int","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Public and private practice: a balancing act for health staff","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1186/1472-6963-6-89","date":"2006-07-17","title":"The cost of health professionals' brain drain in Kenya","abstract":"Background\nPast attempts to estimate the cost of migration were limited to education costs only and did not include the lost returns from investment.\n\n The objectives of this study were: (i) to estimate the financial cost of emigration of Kenyan doctors to the United Kingdom (UK) and the United States of America (USA); (ii) to estimate the financial cost of emigration of nurses to seven OECD countries (Canada, Denmark, Finland, Ireland, Portugal, UK, USA); and (iii) to describe other losses from brain drain.\n\n\nMethods\nThe costs of primary, secondary, medical and nursing schools were estimated in 2005. The cost information used in this study was obtained from one non-profit primary and secondary school and one public university in Kenya.\n\n The cost estimates represent unsubsidized cost.\n\n The loss incurred by Kenya through emigration was obtained by compounding the cost of educating a medical doctor and a nurse over the period between the average age of emigration (30 years) and the age of retirement (62 years) in recipient countries.\n\n\nResults\nThe total cost of educating a single medical doctor from primary school to university is US$ 65,997; and for every doctor who emigrates, a country loses about US$ 517,931 worth of returns from investment.\n\n The total cost of educating one nurse from primary school to college of health sciences is US$ 43,180; and for every nurse that emigrates, a country loses about US$ 338,868 worth of returns from investment.\n\n\nConclusion\nDeveloped countries continue to deprive Kenya of millions of dollars worth of investments embodied in her human resources for health.\n\n If the current trend of poaching of scarce human resources for health (and other professionals) from Kenya is not curtailed, the chances of achieving the Millennium Development Goals would remain bleak.\n\n Such continued plunder of investments embodied in human resources contributes to further underdevelopment of Kenya and to keeping a majority of her people in the vicious circle of ill-health and poverty.\n\n Therefore, both developed and developing countries need to urgently develop and implement strategies for addressing the health human resource crisis.\n\n\n","id":"PMC1538589","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"BioMed Central","authors":[{"firstname":"Joses Muthuri","surname":"Kirigia","email":"kirigiaj@afro.who.int","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Akpa Raphael","surname":"Gbary","email":"Gbarya@afro.who.int","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Lenity Kainyu","surname":"Muthuri","email":"lenitymuthuri@yahoo.co.uk","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jennifer","surname":"Nyoni","email":"Nyonij@afro.who.int","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Anthony","surname":"Seddoh","email":"Seddoha@afro.who.int","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Career destinations of University of Ghana Medical School graduates of various year groups","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1186/1472-6963-8-19","date":"2008-01-23","title":"Staffing remote rural areas in middle- and low-income countries: A literature review of attraction and retention","abstract":"Background\nMany countries in middle- and low-income countries today suffer from severe staff shortages and/or maldistribution of health personnel which has been aggravated more recently by the disintegration of health systems in low-income countries and by the global policy environment.\n\n One of the most damaging effects of severely weakened and under-resourced health systems is the difficulty they face in producing, recruiting, and retaining health professionals, particularly in remote areas.\n\n Low wages, poor working conditions, lack of supervision, lack of equipment and infrastructure as well as HIV and AIDS, all contribute to the flight of health care personnel from remote areas.\n\n In this global context of accelerating inequities health service policy makers and managers are searching for ways to improve the attraction and retention of staff in remote areas.\n\n But the development of appropriate strategies first requires an understanding of the factors which influence decisions to accept and/or stay in a remote post, particularly in the context of mid and low income countries (MLICS), and which strategies to improve attraction and retention are therefore likely to be successful.\n\n It is the aim of this review article to explore the links between attraction and retention factors and strategies, with a particular focus on the organisational diversity and location of decision-making.\n\n\nMethods\nThis is a narrative literature review which took an iterative approach to finding relevant literature.\n\n It focused on English-language material published between 1997 and 2007. The authors conducted Pubmed searches using a range of different search terms relating to attraction and retention of staff in remote areas.\n\n Furthermore, a number of relevant journals as well as unpublished literature were systematically searched.\n\n While the initial search included articles from high- middle- and low-income countries, the review focuses on middle- and low-income countries.\n\n About 600 papers were initially assessed and 55 eventually included in the review.\n\n\nResults\nThe authors argue that, although factors are multi-facetted and complex, strategies are usually not comprehensive and often limited to addressing a single or limited number of factors.\n\n They suggest that because of the complex interaction of factors impacting on attraction and retention, there is a strong argument to be made for bundles of interventions which include attention to living environments, working conditions and environments and development opportunities.\n\n They further explore the organisational location of decision-making related to retention issues and suggest that because promising strategies often lie beyond the scope of human resource directorates or ministries of health, planning and decision-making to improve retention requires multi-sectoral collaboration within and beyond government.\n\n The paper provides a simple framework for bringing the key decision-makers together to identify factors and develop multi-facetted comprehensive strategies.\n\n\nConclusion\nThere are no set answers to the problem of attraction and retention.\n\n It is only through learning about what works in terms of fit between problem analysis and strategy and effective navigation through the politics of implementation that any headway will be made against the almost universal challenge of staffing health service in remote rural areas.\n\n\n","id":"PMC2259330","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"BioMed Central","authors":[{"firstname":"Uta","surname":"Lehmann","email":"ulehmann@uwc.ac.za","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Marjolein","surname":"Dieleman","email":"m.dieleman@kit.nl","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Tim","surname":"Martineau","email":"T.Martineau@liv.ac.uk","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.1186/1478-4491-11-58","date":"2013-11-06","title":"For more than love or money: attitudes of student and in-service health workers towards rural service in India","abstract":"Background\nWhile international literature on rural retention is expanding, there is a lack of research on relevant strategies from pluralistic healthcare environments such as India, where alternate medicine is an integral component of primary care.\n\n In such contexts, there is a constant tug of war in national policy on “Which health worker is needed in rural areas?” and “Who can, realistically, be got there?” In this article, we try to inform this debate by juxtaposing perspectives of three cadres involved in primary care in India—allopathic, ayurvedic and nursing—on rural service.\n\n We also identify key incentives for improved rural retention of these cadres.\n\n\nMethods\nWe present qualitative evidence from two states, Uttarakhand and Andhra Pradesh.\n\n Eighty-eight in-depth interviews with students and in-service personnel were conducted between January and July 2010. Generic thematic analysis techniques were employed, and the data were organized in a framework that clustered factors linked to rural service as organizational (salary, infrastructure, career) and contextual (housing, children’s development, safety).\n\n\nResults\nSimilar to other studies, we found that both pecuniary and non-pecuniary factors (salary, working conditions, children’s education, living conditions and safety) affect career preferences of health workers.\n\n For the allopathic cadre, rural primary care jobs commanded little respect; respondents from this cadre aimed to specialize and preferred private sector jobs.\n\n Offering preferential admission to specialist courses in exchange for a rural stint appears to be a powerful incentive for this cadre.\n\n In contrast, respondents from the Ayurvedic and nursing cadres favored public sector jobs even if this meant rural postings.\n\n For these two cadres, better salary, working and rural living conditions can increase recruitment.\n\n\nConclusions\nRural retention strategies in India have predominantly concentrated on the allopathic cadre.\n\n Our study suggests incentivizing rural service for the nursing and Ayurvedic cadres is less challenging in comparison to the allopathic cadre.\n\n Hence, there is merit in strengthening rural incentive strategies for these two cadres also.\n\n In our study, we have developed a detailed framework of rural retention factors and used this for delineating India-specific recommendations.\n\n This framework can be adapted to other similar contexts to facilitate international cross-cadre comparisons.\n\n\n","id":"PMC4222605","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"BioMed Central","authors":[{"firstname":"Sudha","surname":"Ramani","email":"sudha.ramani@iiphh.org","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Krishna D","surname":"Rao","email":"kd.rao@phfi.org","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Mandy","surname":"Ryan","email":"m.ryan@abdn.ac.uk","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Marko","surname":"Vujicic","email":"vujicic74@gmail.com","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Peter","surname":"Berman","email":"pberman@hsph.harvard.edu","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.3390/ijerph2007040002","date":"2007-04-30","title":"Inequities in the Global Health Workforce: The Greatest Impediment to Health in Sub-Saharan Africa","abstract":"Health systems played a key role in the dramatic rise in global life expectancy that occurred during the 20th century, and have continued to contribute enormously to the improvement of the health of most of the world’s population.\n The health workforce is the backbone of each health system, the lubricant that facilitates the smooth implementation of health action for sustainable socio-economic development.\n It has been proved beyond reasonable doubt that the density of the health workforce is directly correlated with positive health outcomes.\n In other words, health workers save lives and improve health.\n About 59 million people make up the health workforce of paid full-time health workers world-wide.\n However, enormous gaps remain between the potential of health systems and their actual performance, and there are far too many inequities in the distribution of health workers between countries and within countries.\n The Americas (mainly USA and Canada) are home to 14% of the world’s population, bear only 10% of the world’s disease burden, have 37% of the global health workforce and spend about 50% of the world’s financial resources for health.\n Conversely, sub-Saharan Africa, with about 11% of the world’s population bears over 24% of the global disease burden, is home to only 3% of the global health workforce, and spends less than 1% of the world’s financial resources on health.\n In most developing countries, the health workforce is concentrated in the major towns and cities, while rural areas can only boast of about 23% and 38% of the country’s doctors and nurses respectively.\n The imbalances exist not only in the total numbers and geographical distribution of health workers, but also in the skills mix of available health workers.\n WHO estimates that 57 countries world wide have a critical shortage of health workers, equivalent to a global deficit of about 2.4 million doctors, nurses and midwives.\n Thirty six of these countries are in sub-Saharan Africa.\n They would need to increase their health workforce by about 140% to achieve enough coverage for essential health interventions to make a positive difference in the health and life expectancy of their populations.\n The extent causes and consequences of the health workforce crisis in Sub-Saharan Africa, and the various factors that influence and are related to it are well known and described.\n Although there is no “magic bullet” solution to the problem, there are several documented, tested and tried best practices from various countries.\n The global health workforce crisis can be tackled if there is global responsibility, political will, financial commitment and public-private partnership for country-led and country-specific interventions that seek solutions beyond the health sector.\n Only when enough health workers can be trained, sustained and retained in sub-Saharan African countries will there be meaningful socio-economic development and the faintest hope of attaining the Millennium Development Goals in the sub-continent.\n","id":"PMC3728573","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Molecular Diversity Preservation International (MDPI)","authors":[{"firstname":"Stella C. E.","surname":"Anyangwe","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Chipayeni","surname":"Mtonga","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.1016/S0968-8080(07)30338-8","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Maternal mortality and morbidity: is pregnancy getting safer for women?","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Promoting safe motherhood through the private sector in low-and middle-income countries","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1371/journal.pmed.0050121","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The “Other” Neglected Diseases in Global Public Health: Surgical Conditions in Sub-Saharan Africa","abstract":"Doruk Ozgediz and Robert Riviello discuss the burden of premature death and disability and the economic burden of surgical conditions in Africa.\n","id":"PMC2408612","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Public Library of Science","authors":[{"firstname":"Doruk","surname":"Ozgediz","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Robert","surname":"Riviello","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.2471/BLT.13.118786","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Quality of care provided by mid-level health workers: systematic review and meta-analysis","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/S0968-8080(07)30331-5","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Support to the Safe Motherhood Programme in Nepal: an integrated approach","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1093/bmb/ldg017","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Skilled attendants for pregnancy, childbirth and postnatal care","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"2012 list of developing countries. In: World Bank; 2012. Available at https://www.usaid.gov/sites/default/files/documents/1876/310maa.pdf. Accessed on 21 June 2012.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1093/ije/19.4.788","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Health education interventions in developing countries: a methodological review of published articles","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"HRH action framework. In: Capacity Project, Global Health Workforce Alliance. United States Agency for International Development, World Health Organization; 2007. Available at: http://www.capacityproject.org/framework/.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/S0140-6736(80)91129-0","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Post-partum tubal ligation by nurse-midwives and doctors in Thailand","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.2307/1965401","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Physicians vs. auxiliary nurse-midwives as providers of IUD services: a study in Turkey and the Philippines","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/S0140-6736(06)69742-0","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Rates of complication in first-trimester manual vacuum aspiration abortion done by doctors and mid-level providers in South Africa and Vietnam: a randomised controlled equivalence trial","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/S0140-6736(10)62229-5","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Can midlevel health-care providers administer early medical abortion as safely and effectively as doctors? A randomised controlled equivalence trial in Nepal","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/S0020-7292(03)00071-7","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The FIGO save the mothers initiative: the Ethiopia-Sweden collaboration","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Djan JO, Kyei-Faried S, Twum S, Danquah JBO, Ofori M, Browne ENL, Pmm Team TK. Upgrading obstetric care at the health center level, Juaben, Ghana. Int J Gynaecol Obstet. 1997;59:83-90.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Ifenne D, Essien E, Golji N, Sabitu K, Alti-Mu'azu M, Musa A, Adidu V, Mukaddas M. Improving the quality of obstetric care at the teaching hospital, Zaria, Nigeria. Int J Gynaecol Obstet. 1997;59:37-46.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1111/j.1471-0528.2007.01443.x","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Economic evaluation of surgically trained assistant medical officers in performing major obstetric surgery in Mozambique","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/S0140-6736(06)69387-2","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Where is maternal and child health now?","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1377/hlthaff.28.5.w876","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The quality of emergency obstetrical surgery by assistant medical officers in Tanzanian district hospitals","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1007/s10459-005-2329-x","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Training of healthcare personnel to improve performance of community-based antenatal care program","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/j.ijgo.2007.05.017","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Strengthening emergency obstetric care in Nepal: the Women's Right to Life and Health Project (WRLHP)","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Combine learning approaches to improve maternal health. In. Edited by Motherhood GS. Washington D.C. Population Council; 2006.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1111/j.1471-0528.1996.tb09797.x","date":"1970-01-01","title":"A comparative study of caesarean deliveries by assistant medical officers and obstetricians in Mozambique","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1186/1478-4491-5-17","date":"2007-06-14","title":"Postoperative outcome of caesarean sections and other major emergency obstetric surgery by clinical officers and medical officers in Malawi","abstract":"Background\nClinical officers perform much of major emergency surgery in Malawi, in the absence of medical officers.\n\n The aim of this study was to validate the advantages and disadvantages of delegation of major obstetric surgery to non-doctors.\n\n\nMethods\nDuring a three month period, data from 2131 consecutive obstetric surgeries in 38 district hospitals in Malawi were collected prospectively.\n\n The interventions included caesarean sections alone and those that were combined with other interventions such as subtotal and total hysterectomy repair of uterine rupture and tubal ligation.\n\n All these surgeries were conducted either by clinical officers or by medical officers.\n\n\nResults\nDuring the study period, clinical officers performed 90% of all straight caesarean sections, 70% of those combined with subtotal hysterectomy, 60% of those combined with total hysterectomy and 89% of those combined with repair of uterine rupture.\n\n A comparable profile of patients was operated on by clinical officers and medical officers, respectively.\n\n Postoperative outcomes were almost identical in the two groups in terms of maternal general condition – both immediately and 24 hours postoperatively – and regarding occurrence of pyrexia, wound infection, wound dehiscence, need for re-operation, neonatal outcome or maternal death.\n\n\nConclusion\nClinical officers perform the bulk of emergency obstetric operations at district hospitals in Malawi.\n\n The postoperative outcomes of their procedures are comparable to those of medical officers.\n\n Clinical officers constitute a crucial component of the health care team in Malawi for saving maternal and neonatal lives given the scarcity of physicians.\n\n\n","id":"PMC1920531","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"BioMed Central","authors":[{"firstname":"Garvey","surname":"Chilopora","email":"garveychip@yahoo.co.uk","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Caetano","surname":"Pereira","email":"pecaetano@yahoo.com.br","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Francis","surname":"Kamwendo","email":"fwkamwendo@hotmail.com","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Agnes","surname":"Chimbiri","email":"achimbiri@yahoo.co.uk","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Eddie","surname":"Malunga","email":"emalunga@medcol.mw","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Staffan","surname":"Bergström","email":"Staffan.Bergstrom@ki.se","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.1016/S0277-9536(03)00240-5","date":"1970-01-01","title":"User fees at a public hospital in Cambodia: effects on hospital performance and provider attitudes","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.3329/jhpn.v26i3.1896","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Reducing Maternal Mortality and Improving Maternal Health: Bangladesh and MDG 5","abstract":"Bangladesh is on its way to achieving the MDG 5 target of reducing the maternal mortality ratio by three-quarters between 1990 and 2015, but the annual rate of decline needs to triple.\n Although the use of skilled birth attendants has improved over the past 15 years, it remains less than 20% as of 2007 and is especially low among poor, uneducated rural women.\n Increasing the numbers of skilled birth attendants, deploying them in teams in facilities, and improving access to them through messages on antenatal care to women, have the potential to increase such use.\n The use of caesarean sections is increasing although not among poor, uneducated rural women.\n Strengthening appropriate quality emergency obstetric care in rural areas remains the major challenge.\n Strengthening other supportive services, including family planning and delayed first birth, menstrual regulation, and education of women, are also important for achieving MDG 5.","id":"PMC2740701","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"International Centre for Diarrhoeal Disease Research, Bangladesh","authors":[{"firstname":"Marge","surname":"Koblinsky","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Iqbal","surname":"Anwar","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Malay Kanti","surname":"Mridha","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Mahbub Elahi","surname":"Chowdhury","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Roslin","surname":"Botlero","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.1016/S0968-8080(07)30329-7","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Improving emergency obstetric care in a context of very high maternal mortality: The Nepal Safer Motherhood Project 1997-2004","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/S0968-8080(06)27229-X","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Implementation of emergency obstetric care training in Bangladesh: lessons learned","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/j.ijgo.2004.01.005","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Reducing maternal mortality in Mozambique: challenges, failures, successes and lessons learned","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/j.ijgo.2005.10.030","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Improving availability of EmOC services in Rwanda:CARE's experiences and lessons learned at Kabgayi Referral Hospital","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/j.ijgo.2005.12.005","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Strengthening emergency obstetric care in Ayacucho, Peru","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/j.ijgo.2006.05.024","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Improving emergency obstetric care in Mozambique: the story of Sofala","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1093/heapol/czq057","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Critical interactions between Global Fund-supported programmes and health systems: a case study in Indonesia","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Campbell OMR. What are maternal health policies in developing countries and who drives them? A review of the last half-century. Safe motherhood strategies: a review of the evidence 2000.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Causes of maternal mortality decline in Matlab","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/S0140-6736(07)61577-3","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Women deliver for development","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.2471/BLT.06.038588","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Huge poor-rich inequalities in maternity care: an international comparative study of maternity and child care in developing countries","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1111/j.1471-0528.2009.02310.x","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Scaling up human resources for women's health","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Maternal mortality at the Central Hospital, Benin City Nigeria: a ten year review","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Gupta M, Mavalankar D, Trivedi P. A study of referral system for EmOC in Gujarat. 2009.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/S0968-8080(09)33433-3","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Provision of anaesthesia services for emergency obstetric care through task shifting in South Asia","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/S0140-6736(06)69388-4","date":"1970-01-01","title":"An alternative strategy to reduce maternal mortality","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/j.ijgo.2008.11.007","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Human resources for health in the low-resource world: collaborative practice and task shifting in maternal and neonatal care","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.3329/jhpn.v27i2.3326","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Public-sector Maternal Health Programmes and Services for Rural Bangladesh","abstract":"Achieving Millennium Development Goal 5 in Bangladesh calls for an appreciation of the evolution of maternal healthcare within the national health system to date plus a projection of future needs.\n This paper assesses the development of maternal health services and policies by reviewing policy and strategy documents since the independence in 1971, with primary focus on rural areas where three-fourths of the total population of Bangladesh reside.\n Projections of need for facilities and human resources are based on the recommended standards of the World Health Organization (WHO) in 1996 and 2005. Although maternal healthcare services are delivered from for-profit and not-for-profit (NGO) subsectors, this paper is focused on maternal healthcare delivery by public subsector.\n Maternal healthcare services in the public sector of Bangladesh have been guided by global policies (e.\ng.\n Health for All by the Year 2000), national policies (e.\ng.\n population and health policy), and plans (e.\ng.\n five- or three-yearly).\n The Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoHFW), through its two wings—Health Services and Family Planning—sets policies, develops implementation plans, and provides rural public-health services.\n Since 1971, the health infrastructure has developed though not in a uniform pattern and despite policy shifts over time.\n Under the Family Planning wing of the MoHFW, the number of Maternal and Child Welfare Centres has not increased but new services, such as caesarean-section surgery, have been integrated.\n The Health Services wing of the MoHFW has ensured that all district-level public-health facilities, e.\ng.\n district hospitals and medical colleges, can provide comprehensive essential obstetric care (EOC) and have targeted to upgrade 132 of 407 rural Upazila Health Complexes to also provide such services.\n In 2001, they initiated a programme to train the Government's community workers (Family Welfare Assistants and Female Health Assistants) to provide skilled birthing care in the home.\n However, these plans have been too meagre, and their implementation is too weak to fulfill expectations in terms of the MDG 5 indicator—increased use of skilled birth attendants, especially for poor rural women.\n The use of skilled birth attendants, institutional deliveries, and use of caesarean section remain low and are increasing only slowly.\n All these indicators are substantially lower for those in the lower three socioeconomic quintiles.\n A wide variation exists in the availability of comprehensive EOC facilities in the public sector among the six divisions of the country.\n Rajshahi division has more facilities than the WHO 1996 standard (1 comprehensive EOC for 500,000 people) whereas Chittagong and Sylhet divisions have only 64% of their need for comprehensive EOC facilities.\n The WHO 2005 recommendation (1 comprehensive EOC for 3,500 births) suggests that there is a need for nearly five times the existing national number of comprehensive EOC facilities.\n Based on the WHO standard 2005, it is estimated that 9% of existing doctors and 40% of nurses/midwives were needed just for maternal healthcare in both comprehensive EOC and basic EOC facilities in 2007. While the inability to train and retain skilled professionals in rural areas is the major problem in implementation, the bifurcation of the MoHFW (Health Services and Family Planning wings) has led to duplication in management and staff for service-delivery, inefficiencies as a result of these duplications, and difficulties of coordination at all levels.\n The Government of Bangladesh needs to functionally integrate the Health Services and Family Planning wings, move towards a facility-based approach to delivery, ensure access to key maternal health services for women in the lower socioeconomic quintiles, consider infrastructure development based on the estimation of facilities using the WHO 1996 recommendation, and undertake a human resource-development plan based on the WHO 2005 recommendation.\n","id":"PMC2761780","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"International Centre for Diarrhoeal Disease Research, Bangladesh","authors":[{"firstname":"Malay Kanti","surname":"Mridha","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Iqbal","surname":"Anwar","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Marge","surname":"Koblinsky","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Filippi V, Ronsmans C, Campbell OMR, Graham WJ, Mills A, Borghi J, Koblinsky M, Osrin D. Maternal health in poor countries: the broader context and a call for action. Lancet. 2006;368(9546):1535-41.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/j.ijgo.2006.04.003","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Human resources and access to maternal health care","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1111/j.1471-0528.2009.02336.x","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Skilled birth attendance-lessons learnt","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Shortage of healthcare workers in developing countries:Africa","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/j.ijgo.2009.03.035","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Healthcare workers and the brain drain","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Quality of obstetric care in public-sector facilities and constraints to implementing emergency obstetric care services: evidence from high-and low-performing districts of Bangladesh","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.3329/jhpn.v27i2.3366","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Maternal Health in Gujarat, India: A Case Study","abstract":"Gujarat state of India has come a long way in improving the health indicators since independence, but progress in reducing maternal mortality has been slow and largely unmeasured or documented.\n This case study identified several challenges for reducing the maternal mortality ratio, including lack of the managerial capacity, shortage of skilled human resources, non-availability of blood in rural areas, and infrastructural and supply bottlenecks.\n The Gujarat Government has taken several initiatives to improve maternal health services, such as partnership with private obstetricians to provide delivery care to poor women, a relatively-short training of medical officers and nurses to provide emergency obstetric care (EmOC), and an improved emergency transport system.\n However, several challenges still remain.\n Recommendations are made for expanding the management capacity for maternal health, operationalization of health facilities, and ensuring EmOC on 24/7 (24 hours a day, seven days a week) basis by posting nurse-midwives and trained medical officers for skilled care, ensuring availability of blood, and improving the registration and auditing of all maternal deaths.\n However, all these interventions can only take place if there are substantially-increased political will and social awareness.\n","id":"PMC2761782","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"International Centre for Diarrhoeal Disease Research, Bangladesh","authors":[{"firstname":"Dileep V.","surname":"Mavalankar","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Kranti S.","surname":"Vora","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"K.V.","surname":"Ramani","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Parvathy","surname":"Raman","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Bharati","surname":"Sharma","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Mudita","surname":"Upadhyaya","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.1016/j.midw.2009.04.007","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Exercise of essential competencies for midwifery care by nurses in Sao Paulo, Brazil","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.3329/jhpn.v26i3.1902","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Action Monitoring for Equity and Gender in Health","abstract":"Equity and gender, despite being universal concerns for all health programmes in Bangladesh, are often missing in many of the health agenda.\n The health programmes fail to address these important dimensions unless these are specifically included in the planning stage of a programme and are continually monitored for progress.\n This paper presents the situation of equity in health in Bangladesh, innovations in monitoring equity in the use of health services in general and by the poor in particular, and impact of targeted non-health interventions on health outcomes of the poor.\n It was argued that an equitable use of health services might also result in enhanced overall coverage of the services.\n The findings show that government services at the upazila level are used by the poor proportionately more than they are in the community, while at the private facilities, the situation is reverse.\n Commonly-used monitoring tools, at times, are not very useful for the programme managers to know how well they are doing in reaching the poor.\n Use of benefit-incidence ratio may provide a quick feedback to the health facility managers about their extent of serving the poor.\n Similarly, Lot Quality Assurance Sampling can be an easy-to-use tool for monitoring coverage at the community level requiring a very small sample size.\n Although health problems are biomedical phenomena, their solutions may include actions beyond the biomedical framework.\n Studies have shown that non-health interventions targeted towards the poor improve the use of health services and reduce mortality among children in poor households.\n The study on equity and health deals with various interlocking issues, and the examples and views presented in this paper intend to introduce their importance in designing and managing health and development programmes.\n","id":"PMC2740709","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"International Centre for Diarrhoeal Disease Research, Bangladesh","authors":[{"firstname":"Abbas","surname":"Bhuiya","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"S.M.A.","surname":"Hanifi","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Shehrin Shaila","surname":"Mahmood","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Low use of skilled attendants' delivery services in rural Kenya","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1093/bmb/ldg008","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Pregnancy:reducing maternal deaths and disability in Sri Lanka: national strategies","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1111/j.1365-2648.2007.04532.x","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Factors affecting the utilization of antenatal care in developing countries: systematic review of the literature","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Kayentao K, Garner P, van Eijk AM, Naidoo I, Roper C, Mulokozi A, MacArthur JR, Luntamo M, Ashorn P, Doumbo OK et al. Intermittent preventive therapy for malaria during pregnancy using 2 vs 3 or more doses of sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine and risk of low birth weight in Africa systematic review and meta-analysis. JAMA. 2013;309(6):594-604.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Graham W. Can skilled attendance at delivery reduce maternal mortality in developing countries? Safe motherhood strategies: a review of the evidence. In. Edited by W. DBVVL. Antwerp: Studies in Health Services Organisation &amp; Policy; 2001.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]}]},{"doi":"10.1097/GCO.0000000000000323","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Family planning and the Zika era","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"10.1056/NEJMp1906972","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Abortion rights in peril - what clinicians need to know","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"10.1136/bmjgh-2018-001257","date":"2019-01-19","title":"How is implementation research applied to advance health in low-income and middle-income countries?","abstract":"This paper examines the characteristics of implementation research (IR) efforts in low-income and middle-income countries (LMICs) by describing how key IR principles and concepts have been used in published health research in LMICs between 1998 and 2016, with focus on how to better apply these principles and concepts to support large-scale impact of health interventions in LMICs.\n There is a stark discrepancy between principles of IR and what has been published.\n Most IR studies have been conducted under conditions where the researchers have considerable influence over implementation and with extra resources, rather than in ‘real world’ conditions.\n IR researchers tend to focus on research questions that test a proof of concept, such as whether a new intervention is feasible or can improve implementation.\n They also tend to use traditional fixed research designs, yet the usual conditions for managing programmes demand continuous learning and change.\n More IR in LMICs should be conducted under usual management conditions, employ pragmatic research paradigm and address critical implementation issues such as scale-up and sustainability of evidence-informed interventions.\n This paper describes some positive examples that address these concerns and identifies how better reporting of IR studies in LMICs would include more complete descriptions of strategies, contexts, concepts, methods and outcomes of IR activities.\n This will help practitioners, policy-makers and other researchers to better learn how to implement large-scale change in their own settings.\n","id":"PMC6441291","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"BMJ Publishing Group","authors":[{"firstname":"Olakunle","surname":"Alonge","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Daniela Cristina","surname":"Rodriguez","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Daniela Cristina","surname":"Rodriguez","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Neal","surname":"Brandes","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Neal","surname":"Brandes","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Elvin","surname":"Geng","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ludovic","surname":"Reveiz","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"David H","surname":"Peters","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}],"References depth 2":[{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Health systems global","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/S0140-6736(18)32205-0","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Implementation research: new imperatives and opportunities in global health","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Transforming our world: the 2030 agenda for sustainable development","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1371/journal.pmed.0030186","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Implementation Research Is Needed to Achieve International Health Goals","abstract":"Sanders and Haines discuss the 'knowledge-implementation gap' and identify key obstacles to correcting the gap.\n","id":"PMC1472551","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Public Library of Science","authors":[{"firstname":"David","surname":"Sanders","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Andy","surname":"Haines","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The Mexico statement on health research. Mexico City","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/S0140-6736(08)61658-X","date":"1970-01-01","title":"From Mexico to Mali: progress in health policy and systems research","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1007/s10488-010-0319-7","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Outcomes for Implementation Research: Conceptual Distinctions, Measurement Challenges, and Research Agenda","abstract":"An unresolved issue in the field of implementation research is how to conceptualize and evaluate successful implementation.\n This paper advances the concept of “implementation outcomes” distinct from service system and clinical treatment outcomes.\n This paper proposes a heuristic, working “taxonomy” of eight conceptually distinct implementation outcomes—acceptability, adoption, appropriateness, feasibility, fidelity, implementation cost, penetration, and sustainability—along with their nominal definitions.\n We propose a two-pronged agenda for research on implementation outcomes.\n Conceptualizing and measuring implementation outcomes will advance understanding of implementation processes, enhance efficiency in implementation research, and pave the way for studies of the comparative effectiveness of implementation strategies.\n","id":"PMC3068522","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Springer US","authors":[{"firstname":"Enola","surname":"Proctor","email":"ekp@wustl.edu","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Hiie","surname":"Silmere","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ramesh","surname":"Raghavan","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Peter","surname":"Hovmand","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Greg","surname":"Aarons","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Alicia","surname":"Bunger","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Richard","surname":"Griffey","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Melissa","surname":"Hensley","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.1136/bmj.f6753","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Implementation research: what it is and how to do it","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1146/annurev-publhealth-031912-114444","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Implementation science and its application to population health","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1097/MLR.0b013e3182408812","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Effectiveness-implementation hybrid designs: combining elements of clinical effectiveness and implementation research to enhance public health impact","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1146/annurev-publhealth-031816-044215","date":"1970-01-01","title":"An overview of research and evaluation designs for dissemination and implementation","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1007/s10488-010-0314-z","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Mixed Method Designs in Implementation Research","abstract":"This paper describes the application of mixed method designs in implementation research in 22 mental health services research studies published in peer-reviewed journals over the last 5 years.\n Our analyses revealed 7 different structural arrangements of qualitative and quantitative methods, 5 different functions of mixed methods, and 3 different ways of linking quantitative and qualitative data together.\n Complexity of design was associated with number of aims or objectives, study context, and phase of implementation examined.\n The findings provide suggestions for the use of mixed method designs in implementation research.\n","id":"PMC3025112","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Springer US","authors":[{"firstname":"Lawrence A.","surname":"Palinkas","email":"Palinkas@usc.edu","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Gregory A.","surname":"Aarons","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Sarah","surname":"Horwitz","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Patricia","surname":"Chamberlain","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Michael","surname":"Hurlburt","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"John","surname":"Landsverk","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.1177/2373379915618215","date":"1970-01-01","title":"A Transdisciplinary approach for teaching implementation research and practice in public health","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1186/1748-5908-4-50","date":"2009-08-07","title":"Fostering implementation of health services research findings into practice: a consolidated framework for advancing implementation science","abstract":"Background\nMany interventions found to be effective in health services research studies fail to translate into meaningful patient care outcomes across multiple contexts.\n\n Health services researchers recognize the need to evaluate not only summative outcomes but also formative outcomes to assess the extent to which implementation is effective in a specific setting, prolongs sustainability, and promotes dissemination into other settings.\n\n Many implementation theories have been published to help promote effective implementation.\n\n However, they overlap considerably in the constructs included in individual theories, and a comparison of theories reveals that each is missing important constructs included in other theories.\n\n In addition, terminology and definitions are not consistent across theories.\n\n We describe the Consolidated Framework For Implementation Research (CFIR) that offers an overarching typology to promote implementation theory development and verification about what works where and why across multiple contexts.\n\n\nMethods\nWe used a snowball sampling approach to identify published theories that were evaluated to identify constructs based on strength of conceptual or empirical support for influence on implementation, consistency in definitions, alignment with our own findings, and potential for measurement.\n\n We combined constructs across published theories that had different labels but were redundant or overlapping in definition, and we parsed apart constructs that conflated underlying concepts.\n\n\nResults\nThe CFIR is composed of five major domains: intervention characteristics, outer setting, inner setting, characteristics of the individuals involved, and the process of implementation.\n\n Eight constructs were identified related to the intervention (e.\n\ng.\n\n, evidence strength and quality), four constructs were identified related to outer setting (e.\n\ng.\n\n, patient needs and resources), 12 constructs were identified related to inner setting (e.\n\ng.\n\n, culture, leadership engagement), five constructs were identified related to individual characteristics, and eight constructs were identified related to process (e.\n\ng.\n\n, plan, evaluate, and reflect).\n\n We present explicit definitions for each construct.\n\n\nConclusion\nThe CFIR provides a pragmatic structure for approaching complex, interacting, multi-level, and transient states of constructs in the real world by embracing, consolidating, and unifying key constructs from published implementation theories.\n\n It can be used to guide formative evaluations and build the implementation knowledge base across multiple studies and settings.\n\n\n","id":"PMC2736161","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"BioMed Central","authors":[{"firstname":"Laura J","surname":"Damschroder","email":"laura.damschroder@va.gov","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"David C","surname":"Aron","email":"david.aron@va.gov","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Rosalind E","surname":"Keith","email":"rekeith@umich.edu","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Susan R","surname":"Kirsh","email":"susan.kirsh@va.gov","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jeffery A","surname":"Alexander","email":"jalexand@umich.edu","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Julie C","surname":"Lowery","email":"julie.lowery@va.gov","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.1186/s13012-015-0235-z","date":"2015-03-16","title":"Developing standards for reporting implementation studies of complex interventions (StaRI): a systematic review and e-Delphi","abstract":"Background\nDissemination and implementation of health care interventions are currently hampered by the variable quality of reporting of implementation research.\n\n Reporting of other study types has been improved by the introduction of reporting standards (e.\n\ng.\n\n CONSORT).\n\n We are therefore developing guidelines for reporting implementation studies (StaRI).\n\n\nMethods\nUsing established methodology for developing health research reporting guidelines, we systematically reviewed the literature to generate items for a checklist of reporting standards.\n\n We then recruited an international, multidisciplinary panel for an e-Delphi consensus-building exercise which comprised an initial open round to revise/suggest a list of potential items for scoring in the subsequent two scoring rounds (scale 1 to 9).\n\n Consensus was defined a priori as 80% agreement with the priority scores of 7, 8, or 9.\nResults\nWe identified eight papers from the literature review from which we derived 36 potential items.\n\n We recruited 23 experts to the e-Delphi panel.\n\n Open round comments resulted in revisions, and 47 items went forward to the scoring rounds.\n\n Thirty-five items achieved consensus: 19 achieved 100% agreement.\n\n Prioritised items addressed the need to: provide an evidence-based justification for implementation; describe the setting, professional/service requirements, eligible population and intervention in detail; measure process and clinical outcomes at population level (using routine data); report impact on health care resources; describe local adaptations to the implementation strategy and describe barriers/facilitators.\n\n\nConclusions\nWe have identified priority items for reporting implementation studies and key issues for further discussion.\n\n An international, multidisciplinary workshop, where participants will debate the issues raised, clarify specific items and develop StaRI standards that fit within the suite of EQUATOR reporting guidelines, is planned.\n\n\nRegistration\nThe protocol is registered with Equator: http://www.\n\nequator-network.\n\norg/library/reporting-guidelines-under-development/#17.\n\n\n","id":"PMC4393562","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"BioMed Central","authors":[{"firstname":"Hilary","surname":"Pinnock","email":"hilary.pinnock@ed.ac.uk","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Eleni","surname":"Epiphaniou","email":"e.epiphaniou@qmul.ac.uk","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Aziz","surname":"Sheikh","email":"aziz.sheikh@ed.ac.uk","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Chris","surname":"Griffiths","email":"c.j.griffiths@qmul.ac.uk","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Sandra","surname":"Eldridge","email":"s.eldridge@qmul.ac.uk","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Peter","surname":"Craig","email":"peter.craig@glasgow.ac.uk","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Stephanie JC","surname":"Taylor","email":"s.j.c.taylor@qmul.ac.uk","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.1186/1748-5908-8-139","date":"2013-11-12","title":"Implementation strategies: recommendations for specifying and reporting","abstract":"Implementation strategies have unparalleled importance in implementation science, as they constitute the ‘how to’ component of changing healthcare practice.\n Yet, implementation researchers and other stakeholders are not able to fully utilize the findings of studies focusing on implementation strategies because they are often inconsistently labelled and poorly described, are rarely justified theoretically, lack operational definitions or manuals to guide their use, and are part of ‘packaged’ approaches whose specific elements are poorly understood.\n We address the challenges of specifying and reporting implementation strategies encountered by researchers who design, conduct, and report research on implementation strategies.\n Specifically, we propose guidelines for naming, defining, and operationalizing implementation strategies in terms of seven dimensions: actor, the action, action targets, temporality, dose, implementation outcomes addressed, and theoretical justification.\n Ultimately, implementation strategies cannot be used in practice or tested in research without a full description of their components and how they should be used.\n As with all intervention research, their descriptions must be precise enough to enable measurement and ‘reproducibility.\n’ We propose these recommendations to improve the reporting of implementation strategies in research studies and to stimulate further identification of elements pertinent to implementation strategies that should be included in reporting guidelines for implementation strategies.\n","id":"PMC3882890","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"BioMed Central","authors":[{"firstname":"Enola K","surname":"Proctor","email":"ekp@wustl.edu","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Byron J","surname":"Powell","email":"bjpowell@wustl.edu","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"J Curtis","surname":"McMillen","email":"cmcmillen@uchicago.edu","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.2471/BLT.15.167585","date":"2015-12-02","title":"Reporting guidelines for implementation and operational research","abstract":"In public health, implementation research is done to improve access to interventions that have been shown to work but have not reached many of the people who could benefit from them.\n Researchers identify practical problems facing public health programmes and aim to find solutions that improve health outcomes.\n In operational research, routinely-collected programme data are used to uncover ways of delivering more effective, efficient and equitable health care.\n As implementation research can address many types of questions, many research designs may be appropriate.\n Existing reporting guidelines partially cover the methods used in implementation and operational research, so we ran a consultation through the World Health Organization (WHO), the Alliance for Health Policy &amp; Systems Research (AHPSR) and the Special Programme for Research and Training in Tropical Diseases (TDR) and developed guidelines to facilitate the funding, conduct, review and publishing of such studies.\n Our intention is to provide a practical reference for funders, researchers, policymakers, implementers, reviewers and editors working with implementation and operational research.\n This is an evolving field, so we plan to monitor the use of these guidelines and develop future versions as required.\n","id":"PMC4709804","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"World Health Organization","authors":[{"firstname":"Simon","surname":"Hales","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ana","surname":"Lesher-Trevino","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Nathan","surname":"Ford","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Dermot","surname":"Maher","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Andrew","surname":"Ramsay","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Nhan","surname":"Tran","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.7448/IAS.15.2.17326","date":"2012-12-05","title":"Lesotho's Minimum PMTCT Package: lessons learned for combating vertical HIV transmission using co-packaged medicines","abstract":"Introduction\nMother-to-child transmission of HIV can be reduced to&lt;5% with appropriate antiretroviral medications.\n\n Such reductions depend on multiple health system encounters during antenatal care (ANC), delivery and breastfeeding; in countries with limited access to care, transmission remains high.\n\n In Lesotho, where 28% of women attending ANC are HIV positive but where geographic and other factors limit access to ANC and facility deliveries, a Minimum PMTCT Package was launched in 2007 as an alternative to the existing facility-based approach.\n\n Distributed at the first ANC visit, it packaged together all necessary pregnancy, delivery and early postnatal antiretroviral medications for mother and infant.\n\n\nMethods\nTo examine the availability, feasibility, acceptability and possible negative consequences of the Minimum PMTCT Package, data from a 2009 qualitative and quantitative study and a 2010 facility assessment were used.\n\n To examine the effects on ANC and facility-based delivery rates, a difference-in-differences analytic approach was applied to 2009 Demographic and Health Survey data for HIV-tested women who gave birth before and after Minimum PMTCT Package implementation.\n\n\nResults\nThe Minimum PMTCT Package was feasible and acceptable to providers and clients.\n\n Problems with test kit and medicine stock-outs occurred, and 46% of women did not receive the Minimum PMTCT Package until at least their second ANC visit.\n\n Providing adequate instruction on the use of multiple medications represented a challenge.\n\n The proportion of HIV-positive women delivering in facilities declined after Minimum PMTCT Package implementation, although it increased among HIV-negative women (difference-in-differences=14.5%, p=0.05).\n\n The mean number of ANC visits declined more among HIV-positive women than among HIV-negative women after implementation, though the difference was not statistically significant (p=0.09).\n\n Changes in the percentage of women receiving?4 ANC visits did not differ between the two groups.\n\n\nConclusions\nIf supply issues can be resolved and adequate client educational materials provided, take-away co-packages have the potential to increase access to PMTCT commodities in countries where women have limited access to health services.\n\n However, efforts must be made to carefully monitor potential changes in ANC visits and facility deliveries, and further evaluation of adherence, safety and effectiveness are needed.\n\n\n","id":"PMC3531330","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"International AIDS Society","authors":[{"firstname":"Lotus","surname":"McDougal","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Mpolai M","surname":"Moteetee","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Florence","surname":"Mohai","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Malisebo","surname":"Mphale","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Binod","surname":"Mahanty","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Blandinah","surname":"Motaung","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Victor","surname":"Ankrah","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Makaria","surname":"Reynolds","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Kenneth","surname":"Legins","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Appolinaire","surname":"Tiam","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Chewe","surname":"Luo","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Craig","surname":"McClure","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Nancy","surname":"Binkin","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.1186/1472-6963-12-127","date":"2012-05-09","title":"The acceptability, feasibility and impact of a lay health counsellor delivered health promoting schools programme in India: a case study evaluation","abstract":"\nBackground\n\nStudies in resource-limited settings have shown that there are constraints to the use of teachers, peers or health professionals to deliver school health promotion interventions.\n\n School health programmes delivered by trained lay health counsellors could offer a cost-effective alternative.\n\n This paper presents a case study of a multi-component school health promotion intervention in India that was delivered by lay school health counsellors, who possessed neither formal educational nor health provider qualifications.\n\n\n\nMethods\n\nThe intervention was based on the WHO’s Health Promoting Schools framework, and included health screening camps; an anonymous letter box for student questions and complaints; classroom-based life skills training; and, individual psycho-social and academic counselling for students.\n\n The intervention was delivered by a lay school health counsellor who had attained a minimum of a high school education.\n\n The counsellor was trained over four weeks and received structured supervision from health professionals working for the implementing NGO.\n\n The evaluation design was a mixed methods case study.\n\n Quantitative process indicators were collected to assess the extent to which the programme was delivered as planned (feasibility), the uptake of services (acceptability), and the number of students who received corrective health treatment (evidence of impact).\n\n Semi-structured interviews were conducted over two years with 108 stakeholders, and were analysed to identify barriers and facilitators for the programme (feasibility), evaluate acceptability, and gather evidence of positive or negative effects of the programme.\n\n\n\nResults\n\nFeasibility was established by the high reported coverage of all the targeted activities by the school health counsellor.\n\n Acceptability was indicated by a growing number of submissions to the students’ anonymous letter-box; more students self-referring for counselling services over time; and, the perceived need for the programme, as expressed by principals, parents and students.\n\n A minority of teachers complained that there was inadequate information sharing about the programme and mentioned reservations about the capacities of the lay health counsellor.\n\n Preliminary evidence of the positive effects of the programme included the correction of vision problems detected in health screening camps, and qualitative evidence of changes in health-related knowledge and behaviour of students.\n\n\n\nConclusion\n\nA task-shifting approach of delegating school health promotion activities to lay school health counsellors rather than education or health professionals shows promise of effectiveness as a scalable model for promoting the health and well being of school based adolescents in resource constrained settings.\n\n\n","id":"PMC3461450","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"BioMed Central","authors":[{"firstname":"Divya","surname":"Rajaraman","email":"divya.rajaraman@sjri.res.in","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Sandra","surname":"Travasso","email":"sandramarytravasso@gmail.com","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Achira","surname":"Chatterjee","email":"achirachatterjee@gmail.com","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Bhargav","surname":"Bhat","email":"bhargav@sangath.com","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Gracy","surname":"Andrew","email":"gracy@sangath.com","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Suraj","surname":"Parab","email":"suraj@sangath.com","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Vikram","surname":"Patel","email":"vikram.patel@lshtm.ac.uk","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.1186/1472-6963-13-S2-S4","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Strengthening integrated primary health care in Sofala, Mozambique","abstract":"Background\nLarge increases in health sector investment and policies favoring upgrading and expanding the public sector health network have prioritized maternal and child health in Mozambique and, over the past decade, Mozambique has achieved substantial improvements in maternal and child health indicators.\n\n Over this same period, the government of Mozambique has continued to decentralize the management of public sector resources to the district level, including in the health sector, with the aim of bringing decision-making and resources closer to service beneficiaries.\n\n Weak district level management capacity has hindered the decentralization process, and building this capacity is an important link to ensure that resources translate to improved service delivery and further improvements in population health.\n\n A consortium of the Ministry of Health, Health Alliance International, Eduardo Mondlane University, and the University of Washington are implementing a health systems strengthening model in Sofala Province, central Mozambique.\n\n\nDescription of implementation\nThe Mozambique Population Health Implementation and Training (PHIT) Partnership focuses on improving the quality of routine data and its use through appropriate tools to facilitate decision making by health system managers; strengthening management and planning capacity and funding district health plans; and building capacity for operations research to guide system-strengthening efforts.\n\n This seven-year effort covers all 13 districts and 146 health facilities in Sofala Province.\n\n\nEvaluation design\nA quasi-experimental controlled time-series design will be used to assess the overall impact of the partnership strategy on under-5 mortality by examining changes in mortality pre- and post-implementation in Sofala Province compared with neighboring Manica Province.\n\n The evaluation will compare a broad range of input, process, output, and outcome variables to strengthen the plausibility that the partnership strategy led to health system improvements and subsequent population health impact.\n\n\nDiscussion\nThe Mozambique PHIT Partnership expects to provide evidence on the effect of efforts to improve data quality coupled with the introduction of tools, training, and supervision to improve evidence-based decision making.\n\n This contribution to the knowledge base on what works to enhance health systems is highly replicable for rapid scale-up to other provinces in Mozambique, as well as other sub-Saharan African countries with limited resources and a commitment to comprehensive primary health care.\n\n\n","id":"PMC3668215","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"BioMed Central","authors":[{"firstname":"Kenneth","surname":"Sherr","email":"ksherr@uw.edu","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Fatima","surname":"Cuembelo","email":"fcuembelo@gmail.com","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Cathy","surname":"Michel","email":"cathy.michel@healthallianceinternational.org","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Sarah","surname":"Gimbel","email":"sgimbel@uw.edu","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Mark","surname":"Micek","email":"mmicek@uw.edu","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Marina","surname":"Kariaganis","email":"karagianism@gmail.com","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Alusio","surname":"Pio","email":"alygpio@gmail.com","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"João Luis","surname":"Manuel","email":"joluma28@yahoo.com.br","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"James","surname":"Pfeiffer","email":"jamespf@uw.edu","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Stephen","surname":"Gloyd","email":"gloyd@uw.edu","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.1093/heapol/czu012","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Contextual factors as a key to understanding the heterogeneity of effects of a maternal health policy in Burkina Faso?","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1080/09540121.2011.555742","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Female condom use in the rural sex industry in China: analysis of users and non-users at post-intervention surveys","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1186/1748-5908-7-66","date":"2012-06-28","title":"Implementing nurse-initiated and managed antiretroviral treatment (NIMART) in South Africa: a qualitative process evaluation of the STRETCH trial","abstract":"Background\nTask-shifting is promoted widely as a mechanism for expanding antiretroviral treatment (ART) access.\n\n However, the evidence for nurse-initiated and managed ART (NIMART) in Africa is limited, and little is known about the key barriers and enablers to implementing NIMART programmes on a large scale.\n\n The STRETCH (Streamlining Tasks and Roles to Expand Treatment and Care for HIV) programme was a complex educational and organisational intervention implemented in the Free State Province of South Africa to enable nurses providing primary HIV/AIDS care to expand their roles and include aspects of care and treatment usually provided by physicians.\n\n STRETCH used a phased implementation approach and ART treatment guidelines tailored specifically to nurses.\n\n The effects of STRETCH on pre-ART mortality, ART provision, and the quality of HIV/ART care were evaluated through a randomised controlled trial.\n\n This study was conducted alongside the trial to develop a contextualised understanding of factors affecting the implementation of the programme.\n\n\nMethods\nThis study was a qualitative process evaluation using in-depth interviews and focus group discussions with patients, health workers, health managers, and other key informants as well as observation in clinics.\n\n Research questions focused on perceptions of STRETCH, changes in health provider roles, attitudes and patient relationships, and impact of the implementation context on trial outcomes.\n\n Data were analysed collaboratively by the research team using thematic analysis.\n\n\nResults\nNIMART appears to be highly acceptable among nurses, patients, and physicians.\n\n Managers and nurses expressed confidence in their ability to deliver ART successfully.\n\n This confidence developed slowly and unevenly, through a phased and well-supported approach that guided nurses through training, re-prescription, and initiation.\n\n The research also shows that NIMART changes the working and referral relationships between health staff, demands significant training and support, and faces workload and capacity constraints, and logistical and infrastructural challenges.\n\n\nConclusions\nLarge-scale NIMART appears to be feasible and acceptable in the primary level public sector health services in South Africa.\n\n Successful implementation requires a comprehensive approach with: an incremental and well supported approach to implementation; clinical guidelines tailored to nurses; and significant health services reorganisation to accommodate the knock-on effects of shifts in practice.\n\n\nTrial registration\nISRCTN46836853\n","id":"PMC3464669","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"BioMed Central","authors":[{"firstname":"Daniella","surname":"Georgeu","email":"Daniella.Georgeu@uct.ac.za","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Christopher J","surname":"Colvin","email":"cj.colvin@uct.ac.za","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Simon","surname":"Lewin","email":"simon.lewin@nokc.no","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Lara","surname":"Fairall","email":"Lara.Fairall@uct.ac.za","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Max O","surname":"Bachmann","email":"M.Bachmann@uea.ac.uk","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Kerry","surname":"Uebel","email":"Uebelke@fshealth.gov.za","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Merrick","surname":"Zwarenstein","email":"merrick.zwarenstein@ices.on.ca","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Beverly","surname":"Draper","email":"B.Draper@uct.ac.za","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Eric D","surname":"Bateman","email":"Eric.Bateman@uct.ac.za","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.1186/1471-2393-12-5","date":"2012-01-24","title":"Scaling up community mobilisation through women's groups for maternal and neonatal health: experiences from rural Bangladesh","abstract":"Background\nProgram coverage is likely to be an important determinant of the effectiveness of community interventions to reduce neonatal mortality.\n\n Rigorous examination and documentation of methods to scale-up interventions and measure coverage are scarce, however.\n\n To address this knowledge gap, this paper describes the process and measurement of scaling-up coverage of a community mobilisation intervention for maternal, child and neonatal health in rural Bangladesh and critiques this real-life experience in relation to available literature on scaling-up.\n\n\nMethods\nScale-up activities took place in nine unions in rural Bangladesh.\n\n Recruitment and training of those who deliver the intervention, communication and engagement with the community and other stakeholders and active dissemination of intervention activities are described.\n\n Process evaluation and population survey data are presented and used to measure coverage and the success of scale-up.\n\n\nResults\nThe intervention was scaled-up from 162 women's groups to 810, representing a five-fold increase in population coverage.\n\n The proportion of women of reproductive age and pregnant women who were engaged in the intervention increased from 9% and 3%, respectively, to 23% and 29%.\n\n\nConclusions\nExamination and documentation of how scaling-up was successfully initiated, led, managed and monitored in rural Bangladesh provide a deeper knowledge base and valuable lessons.\n\n\n","id":"PMC3298477","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"BioMed Central","authors":[{"firstname":"Tasmin","surname":"Nahar","email":"tasminpcp@dab-bd.org","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Kishwar","surname":"Azad","email":"pcp@dab-bd.org","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Bedowra Haq","surname":"Aumon","email":"bedowrapcp@dab-bd.org","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Layla","surname":"Younes","email":"younes.layla@gmail.com","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Sanjit","surname":"Shaha","email":"sanjitpcp@dab-bd.org","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Abdul","surname":"Kuddus","email":"kudduspcp@dab-bd.org","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Audrey","surname":"Prost","email":"prostaudrey@gmail.com","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Tanja AJ","surname":"Houweling","email":"tanja.houweling@gmail.com","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Anthony","surname":"Costello","email":"a.costello@ich.ucl.ac.uk","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Edward","surname":"Fottrell","email":"e.fottrell@ich.ucl.ac.uk","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.1186/1478-4491-11-39","date":"2013-08-06","title":"Human resource development for a community-based health extension program: a case study from Ethiopia","abstract":"Introduction\nEthiopia is one of the sub-Saharan countries most affected by high disease burden, aggravated by a shortage and imbalance of human resources, geographical distance, and socioeconomic factors.\n\n In 2004, the government introduced the Health Extension Program (HEP), a primary care delivery strategy, to address the challenges and achieve the World Health Organization Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) within a context of limited resources.\n\n\nCase description\nThe health system was reformed to create a platform for integration and institutionalization of the HEP with appropriate human capacity, infrastructure, and management structures.\n\n Human resources were developed through training of female health workers recruited from their prospective villages, designed to limit the high staff turnover and address gender, social and cultural factors in order to provide services acceptable to each community.\n\n The service delivery modalities include household, community and health facility care.\n\n Thus, the most basic health post infrastructure, designed to rapidly and cost-effectively scale up HEP, was built in each village.\n\n In line with the country’s decentralized management system, the HEP service delivery is under the jurisdiction of the district authorities.\n\n\nDiscussion and evaluation\nThe nationwide implementation of HEP progressed in line with its target goals.\n\n In all, 40 training institutions were established, and over 30,000 Health Extension Workers have been trained and deployed to approximately 15,000 villages.\n\n The potential health service coverage reached 92.1% in 2011, up from 64% in 2004. While most health indicators have improved, performance in skilled delivery and postnatal care has not been satisfactory.\n\n While HEP is considered the most important institutional framework for achieving the health MDGs in Ethiopia, quality of service, utilization rate, access and referral linkage to emergency obstetric care, management, and evaluation of the program are the key challenges that need immediate attention.\n\n\nConclusions\nThis article describes the strategies, human resource developments, service delivery modalities, progress in service coverage, and the challenges in the implementation of the HEP.\n\n The Ethiopian approach of revitalization of primary care through innovative, locally appropriate and acceptable strategies will provide important lessons to other poorly resourced countries.\n\n It is hoped that the approaches and strategies described in this paper will aid in that process.\n\n\n","id":"PMC3751859","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"BioMed Central","authors":[{"firstname":"Hailay D","surname":"Teklehaimanot","email":"ht2170@columbia.edu","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Awash","surname":"Teklehaimanot","email":"at2076@columbia.edu","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.1377/hlthaff.2012.0827","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Brazil's conditional cash transfer program associated with declines in infant mortality rates","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Introduction of syphilis point-of-care tests, from pilot study to national programme implementation in Zambia: A qualitative study of healthcare workers' perspectives on testing, training and quality assurance","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1186/1745-6215-13-96","date":"2012-05-24","title":"A community mobilisation intervention to prevent violence against women and reduce HIV/AIDS risk in Kampala, Uganda (the SASA! Study): study protocol for a cluster randomised controlled trial","abstract":"Background\nGender based violence, including violence by an intimate partner, is a major global human rights and public health problem, with important connections with HIV risk.\n\n Indeed, the elimination of sexual and gender based violence is a core pillar of HIV prevention for UNAIDS.\n\n Integrated strategies to address the gender norms, relations and inequities that underlie both violence against women and HIV/AIDS are needed.\n\n However there is limited evidence about the potential impact of different intervention models.\n\n This protocol describes the SASA! Study: an evaluation of a community mobilisation intervention to prevent violence against women and reduce HIV/AIDS risk in Kampala, Uganda.\n\n\nMethods/Design\nThe SASA! Study is a pair-matched cluster randomised controlled trial being conducted in eight communities in Kampala.\n\n It is designed to assess the community-level impact of the SASA! intervention on the following six primary outcomes: attitudes towards the acceptability of violence against women and the acceptability of a woman refusing sex (among male and female community members); past year experience of physical intimate partner violence and sexual intimate partner violence (among females); community responses to women experiencing violence (among women reporting past year physical/sexual partner violence); and past year concurrency of sexual partners (among males).\n\n 1583 women and men (aged 18–49?years) were surveyed in intervention and control communities prior to intervention implementation in 2007/8. A follow-up cross-sectional survey of community members will take place in 2012. The primary analysis will be an adjusted cluster-level intention to treat analysis, comparing outcomes in intervention and control communities at follow-up.\n\n Complementary monitoring and evaluation and qualitative research will be used to explore and describe the process of intervention implementation and the pathways through which change is achieved.\n\n\nDiscussion\nThis is one of few cluster randomised trials globally to assess the impact of a gender-focused community mobilisation intervention.\n\n The multi-disciplinary research approach will enable us to address questions of intervention impact and mechanisms of action, as well as its feasibility, acceptability and transferability to other contexts.\n\n The results will be of importance to researchers, policy makers and those working on the front line to prevent violence against women and HIV.\n\n\nTrial registration\nClinicalTrials.\n\nGov NCT00790959\n","id":"PMC3503643","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"BioMed Central","authors":[{"firstname":"Tanya","surname":"Abramsky","email":"Tanya.abramsky@lshtm.ac.uk","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Karen","surname":"Devries","email":"Karen.devries@lshtm.ac.uk","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ligia","surname":"Kiss","email":"ligia.kiss@lshtm.ac.uk","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Leilani","surname":"Francisco","email":"francisco_leilani@bah.com","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Janet","surname":"Nakuti","email":"janet@raisingvoices.org","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Tina","surname":"Musuya","email":"tmusuya@raisingvoices.org","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Nambusi","surname":"Kyegombe","email":"nambusi.kyegombe@lshtm.ac.uk","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Elizabeth","surname":"Starmann","email":"Elizabeth.starmann@lshtm.ac.uk","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Dan","surname":"Kaye","email":"dankkaye@yahoo.com","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Lori","surname":"Michau","email":"lori.michau@raisingvoices.org","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Charlotte","surname":"Watts","email":"charlotte.watts@lshtm.ac.uk","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.1016/j.midw.2011.09.005","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Health reporting system in two subdistricts in eastern Indonesia: highlighting the role of village midwives","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1097/QAI.0000000000001172","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Process Evaluation of a Sport-Based Voluntary Medical Male Circumcision Demand-Creation Intervention in Bulawayo, Zimbabwe","abstract":"Methods:\nWe conducted 17 interviews and 2 focus group discussions with coaches and 29 interviews with circumcised (n = 13) and uncircumcised participants (n = 16).\n\n\nResults:\nFindings demonstrate high program acceptability, highlighting the coach–participant relationship as a key factor associated with uptake.\n\n Specifically, participants valued the coaches' openness to discuss their personal experiences with VMMC and the accompaniment by their coaches to the VMMC clinic.\n\n\nConclusions:\nShould the coach quality remain consistent at scale, MTC offers an effective approach toward generating VMMC demand among males.\n\n\n","id":"PMC5054959","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"JAIDS Journal of Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndromes","authors":[{"firstname":"Jeff","surname":"DeCelles","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Rebecca B.","surname":"Hershow","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Zachary A.","surname":"Kaufman","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Katherine R.","surname":"Gannett","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Thandanani","surname":"Kombandeya","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Cynthia","surname":"Chaibva","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"David A.","surname":"Ross","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Abigail","surname":"Harrison","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.1186/1745-6215-15-93","date":"2014-03-05","title":"Launching a salt substitute to reduce blood pressure at the population level: a cluster randomized stepped wedge trial in Peru","abstract":"Background\nControlling hypertension rates and maintaining normal blood pressure, particularly in resource-constrained settings, represent ongoing challenges of effective and affordable implementation in health care.\n\n One of the strategies being largely advocated to improve high blood pressure calls for salt reduction strategies.\n\n This study aims to estimate the impact of a population-level intervention based on sodium reduction and potassium increase – in practice, introducing a low-sodium, high-potassium salt substitute – on adult blood pressure levels.\n\n\nMethods/Design\nThe proposed implementation research study includes two components: Phase 1, an exploratory component, and Phase 2, an intervention component.\n\n The exploratory component involves a triangle taste test and a formative research study designed to gain an understanding of the best implementation methods.\n\n Phase 2 involves a pragmatic stepped wedge trial design where the intervention will be progressively implemented in several clusters starting the intervention randomly at different times.\n\n In addition, we will evaluate the implementation strategy using a cost-effectiveness analysis.\n\n\nDiscussion\nThis is the first project in a Latin-American setting to implement a salt substitution intervention at the population level to tackle high blood pressure.\n\n Data generated and lessons learnt from this study will provide a strong platform to address potential interventions applicable to other similar low- and middle-income settings.\n\n\nTrial registration\nThis study is registered in ClinicalTrials.\n\ngov NCT01960972.\n\n\n","id":"PMC3976551","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"BioMed Central","authors":[{"firstname":"Antonio","surname":"Bernabe-Ortiz","email":"antonio.bernabe@upch.pe","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Francisco","surname":"Diez-Canseco","email":"fdiezcanseco@upch.pe","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Robert H","surname":"Gilman","email":"rgilman@jhsph.edu","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"María K","surname":"Cárdenas","email":"maria.cardenas.g@upch.pe","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Katherine A","surname":"Sacksteder","email":"ksacksteder@gmail.com","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"J Jaime","surname":"Miranda","email":"jaime.miranda@upch.pe","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.9745/GHSP-D-14-00156","date":"2015-01-09","title":"Successful Proof of Concept of Family Planning and Immunization Integration in Liberia","abstract":"Mobilizing vaccinators to provide mothers key family planning information and referrals to co-located, same-day family planning services was feasible in resource-limited areas of Liberia, leading to substantial increases in contraceptive use.\n Conversely, impact on immunization rates was less clear, but at a minimum there was no decrease in doses administered.\n","id":"PMC4356276","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Global Health: Science and Practice","authors":[{"firstname":"Chelsea M","surname":"Cooper","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Rebecca","surname":"Fields","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Corinne I","surname":"Mazzeo","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Nyapu","surname":"Taylor","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Anne","surname":"Pfitzer","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Mary","surname":"Momolu","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Cuallau","surname":"Jabbeh-Howe","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.1080/00034983.1998.11813375","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Problems and perspectives of managing an onchocerciasis control programme: a case study from plateau state, Nigeria","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.4269/ajtmh.14-0138","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Pilot cluster randomized controlled trials to evaluate adoption of water, sanitation, and hygiene interventions and their combination in rural Western Kenya","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1186/1471-2458-13-1034","date":"2013-10-25","title":"Early results of an integrated maternal, newborn, and child health program, Northern Nigeria, 2009 to 2011","abstract":"Background\nThis paper describes early results of an integrated maternal, newborn, and child health (MNCH) program in Northern Nigeria where child mortality rates are two to three times higher than in the southern states.\n\n The intervention model integrated critical health systems changes needed to reinvigorate MNCH health services, together with community-based activities aimed at mobilizing and enabling women to make changes in their MNCH practices.\n\n Control Local Government Areas received less-intense statewide policy changes.\n\n\nMethods\nThe impact of the intervention was assessed using a quasi-experimental design, comparing MNCH behaviors and outcomes in the intervention and control areas, before and after implementation of the systems and community activities.\n\n Stratified random household surveys were conducted at baseline in 2009 (n = 2,129) and in 2011 at follow-up (n = 2310), with women with births in the five years prior to household surveys.\n\n Chi-square and t-tests were used to document presence of significant improvements in several MNCH outcomes.\n\n\nResults\nBetween baseline and follow-up, anti-tetanus vaccination rates increased from 69.0% to 85.0%, and early breastfeeding also increased, from 42.9% to 57.5%.\n\n More newborns were checked by trained health workers (39.2% to 75.5%), and women were performing more of the critical newborn care activities at follow-up.\n\n Fewer women relied on the traditional birth attendant for health advice (48.4% to 11.0%, with corresponding increases in advice from trained health workers.\n\n At follow-up, most of these improvements were greater in the intervention than control communities.\n\n In the intervention communities, there was less use of anti-malarials for all symptoms, coupled with more use of other medications and traditional, herbal remedies.\n\n Infant and child mortality declined in both intervention and control communities, with the greatest declines in intervention communities.\n\n In the intervention communities, infant mortality rate declined from 90 at baseline to 59 at follow-up, while child mortality declined from 160 to 84.\nConclusions\nThese results provide evidence that in the context of ongoing improvements to the primary health care system, the participatory and community-based interventions focusing on improved newborn and infant care were effective at changing infant care practices and outcomes in the intervention communities.\n\n\n","id":"PMC4228462","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"BioMed Central","authors":[{"firstname":"Sally E","surname":"Findley","email":"sef5@columbia.edu","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Omolara T","surname":"Uwemedimo","email":"omolara.thomas@gmail.com","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Henry V","surname":"Doctor","email":"hvd2105@columbia.edu","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Cathy","surname":"Green","email":"cgreen@healthpartners-int.co.uk","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Fatima","surname":"Adamu","email":"fladamuy@yahoo.com","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Godwin Y","surname":"Afenyadu","email":"gafenyadu@gmail.com","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.1186/s13012-015-0328-8","date":"2015-09-18","title":"Implementing tobacco use treatment guidelines in community health centers in Vietnam","abstract":"Background\nVietnam has a smoking prevalence that is the second highest among Southeast Asian countries (SEACs).\n\n According to the World Health Organization (WHO), most reductions in mortality from tobacco use in the near future will be achieved through helping current users quit.\n\n Yet, largely due to a lack of research on strategies for implementing WHO-endorsed treatment guidelines in primary care settings, services to treat tobacco dependence are not readily available to smokers in low middle-income countries (LMICs) like Vietnam.\n\n The objective of this study is to conduct a cluster randomized controlled trial that compares the effectiveness of two system-level strategies for implementing evidence-based guidelines for the treatment of tobacco use in 26 public community health centers (CHCs) in Vietnam.\n\n\nMethods/Design\nThe current study will use a cluster-randomized design and multiple data sources (patient exit interviews, provider and village health worker (VHW) surveys, and semi-structured provider/VHW interviews) to study the process of adapting and implementing clinical practice guidelines in Vietnam and theory-driven mechanisms hypothesized to explain the comparative effectiveness of the two strategies for implementation.\n\n CHCs will be randomly assigned to either of the following: (1) training plus clinical reminder system (TC) or (2) TC?+?referral to a VHW (TCR) for three in person counseling sessions.\n\n The primary outcome is provider adherence to tobacco use treatment guidelines.\n\n The secondary outcome is 6-month biochemically verified smoking abstinence.\n\n\nDiscussion\nThe proposed implementation strategies draw on evidence-based approaches and a growing literature that supports the effectiveness of integrating community health workers as members of the health care team to improve access to preventive services.\n\n We hypothesize that the value of these implementation strategies is additive and that incorporating a referral resource that allows providers to delegate the task of offering counseling (TCR) will be superior to TC alone in improving delivery of cessation assistance to smokers.\n\n The findings of this research have potential to guide large-scale adoption of promising strategies for implementing and disseminating tobacco use treatment guidelines throughout the public health system in Vietnam and will serve as a model for similar action in other LMICs.\n\n\nTrial registration\n\nNCT01967654\n\nElectronic supplementary material\nThe online version of this article (doi:10.1186/s13012-015-0328-8) contains supplementary material, which is available to authorized users.\n\n\n","id":"PMC4600252","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"BioMed Central","authors":[{"firstname":"Donna","surname":"Shelley","email":"Donna.shelley@nyumc.org","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Nancy","surname":"VanDevanter","email":"Nvd2@nyu.edu","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Charles C.","surname":"Cleland","email":"Chuck.cleland@nyu.edu","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Linh","surname":"Nguyen","email":"ntlinh@isms.org.vn","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Nam","surname":"Nguyen","email":"ntnam@isms.org.vn","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.1186/s13012-015-0309-y","date":"2015-08-06","title":"Learning before leaping: integration of an adaptive study design process prior to initiation of BetterBirth, a large-scale randomized controlled trial in Uttar Pradesh, India","abstract":"Background\nPragmatic and adaptive trial designs are increasingly used in quality improvement (QI) interventions to provide the strongest evidence for effective implementation and impact prior to broader scale-up.\n\n We previously showed that an on-site coaching intervention focused on the World Health Organization Safe Childbirth Checklist (SCC) improved performance of essential birth practices (EBPs) in one facility in Karnataka, India.\n\n We report on the process and outcomes of adapting the intervention prior to larger-scale implementation in a randomized controlled trial in Uttar Pradesh (UP), India.\n\n\nMethods\nInitially, we trained a local team of physicians and nurses to coach birth attendants in SCC use at two public facilities for 4–6 weeks.\n\n Trained observers evaluated adherence to EBPs before and after coaching.\n\n Using mixed methods and a systematic adaptation process, we modified and strengthened the intervention.\n\n The modified intervention was implemented in three additional facilities.\n\n Pre/post-change in EBP prevalence aggregated across facilities was analyzed.\n\n\nResults\nIn the first two facilities, limited improvement was seen in EBPs with the exception of post-partum oxytocin.\n\n Checklists were used &lt;25 % of observations.\n\n We identified challenges in physicians coaching nurses, need to engage district and facility leadership to address system gaps, and inadequate strategy for motivating SCC uptake.\n\n Revisions included change to peer-to-peer coaching (nurse to nurse, physician to physician); strengthened coach training on behavior and system change; adapted strategy for effective leadership engagement; and an explicit motivation strategy to enhance professional pride and effectiveness.\n\n These modifications resulted in improvement in multiple EBPs from baseline including taking maternal blood pressure (0 to 16 %), post-partum oxytocin (36 to 97 %), early breastfeeding initiation (3 to 64 %), as well as checklist use (range 32 to 88 %), all p?&lt;?0.01. Further adaptations were implemented to increase the effectiveness prior to full trial launch.\n\n\nConclusions\nThe adaptive study design of implementation, evaluation, and feedback drove iterative redesign and successfully developed a SCC-focused coaching intervention that improved EBPs in UP facilities.\n\n This work was critical to develop a replicable BetterBirth package tailored to the local context.\n\n The multi-center pragmatic trial is underway measuring impact of the BetterBirth program on EBP and maternal-neonatal morbidity and mortality.\n\n\nTrial registration\nClinical trials identifier: NCT02148952.\n\n\n","id":"PMC4536663","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"BioMed Central","authors":[{"firstname":"Lisa Ruth","surname":"Hirschhorn","email":"lhirschhorn@ariadnelabs.org","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Katherine","surname":"Semrau","email":"ksemrau@ariadnelabs.org","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Bhala","surname":"Kodkany","email":"rkodkany@gmail.com","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Robyn","surname":"Churchill","email":"robyncnm@gmail.com","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Atul","surname":"Kapoor","email":"AKapoor@psi.org.in","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jonathan","surname":"Spector","email":"specmonn@gmail.com","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Steve","surname":"Ringer","email":"sringer@partners.org","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Rebecca","surname":"Firestone","email":"RFirestone@psi.org","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Vishwajeet","surname":"Kumar","email":"vishwajeet.kumar@shivgarh.org","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Atul","surname":"Gawande","email":"agawande@partners.org","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.1080/00034983.1998.11813372","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Mectizan delivery systems and cost recovery in the Central African Republic","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/j.socscimed.2008.12.024","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Building social capital in post-conflict communities: evidence from Nicaragua","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1542/peds.2009-3464","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Newborn care training of midwives and neonatal and perinatal mortality rates in a developing country","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1111/inr.12017","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Newborn care in Nepal: the effects of an educational intervention on nurses' knowledge and practice","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1097/QAI.0000000000000517","date":"2014-11-11","title":"Implementation and Operational Research: The Impact of Option B+ on the Antenatal PMTCT Cascade in Lilongwe, Malawi","abstract":"Objective:\nIn 2011, Malawi implemented Option B+ (B+), lifelong antiretroviral therapy (ART) for pregnant and breastfeeding women.\n\n We aimed to describe changes in service uptake and outcomes along the antenatal prevention of mother-to-child transmission (PMTCT) cascade post-B+ implementation.\n\n\nDesign:\nPre/post study using routinely collected program data from 2 large Lilongwe-based health centers.\n\n\nMethods:\nWe compared the testing of HIV-infected pregnant women at antenatal care, enrollment into PMTCT services, receipt of ART, and 6-month ART outcomes pre-B+ (October 2009–March 2011) and post-B+ (October 2011–March 2013).\n\n\nResults:\nA total of 13,926 (pre) and 14,532 (post) women presented to antenatal care.\n\n Post-B+, a smaller proportion were HIV-tested (99.3% vs.\n\n 87.7% post-B+; P &lt; 0.0001).\n\n There were 1654 (pre) and 1535 (post) HIV-infected women identified, with a larger proportion already known to be HIV-infected (18.1% vs.\n\n 41.2% post-B+; P &lt; 0.0001) and on ART post-B+ (18.7% vs.\n\n 30.2% post-B+; P &lt; 0.0001).\n\n A significantly greater proportion enrolled into the PMTCT program (68.3% vs.\n\n 92.6% post-B+; P &lt; 0.0001) and was retained through delivery post-B+ (51.1% vs.\n\n 65% post-B+; P &lt; 0.0001).\n\n Among those not on ART at enrollment, there was no change in the proportion newly initiating ART/antiretrovirals (79% vs.\n\n 81.9% post-B+; P = 0.11), although median days to initiation of ART decreased [48 days (19, 130) vs.\n\n 0 days (0, 15.5) post-B+; P &lt; 0.0001].\n\n Among those newly initiating ART, a smaller proportion was alive on ART 6 months after initiation (89.3% vs.\n\n 78.8% post-B+; P = 0.0004).\n\n\nConclusions:\nAlthough several improvements in PMTCT program performance were noted with implementation of B+, challenges remain at several critical steps along the cascade requiring innovative solutions to ensure an AIDS-free generation.\n\n\n","id":"PMC4359035","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"JAIDS Journal of Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndromes","authors":[{"firstname":"Maria H.","surname":"Kim","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Saeed","surname":"Ahmed","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Mina C.","surname":"Hosseinipour","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Thomas P.","surname":"Giordano","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Elizabeth Y.","surname":"Chiao","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Xiaoying","surname":"Yu","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Chi","surname":"Nguyen","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Frank","surname":"Chimbwandira","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Peter N.","surname":"Kazembe","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Elaine J.","surname":"Abrams","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.1371/journal.pone.0126144","date":"2015-03-30","title":"Exploring the Feasibility of Service Integration in a Low-Income Setting: A Mixed Methods Investigation into Different Models of Reproductive Health and HIV Care in Swaziland","abstract":"Integrating reproductive health (RH) with HIV care is a policy priority in high HIV prevalence settings, despite doubts surrounding its feasibility and varying evidence of effects on health outcomes.\n The process and outcomes of integrated RH-HIV care were investigated in Swaziland, through a comparative case study of four service models, ranging from fully integrated to fully stand-alone HIV services, selected purposively within one town.\n A client exit survey (n=602) measured integrated care received and unmet family planning (FP) needs.\n Descriptive statistics were used to assess the degree of integration per clinic and client demand for services.\n Logistic regression modelling was used to test the hypothesis that clients at more integrated sites had lower unmet FP needs than clients in a stand-alone site.\n Qualitative methods included in-depth interviews with clients and providers to explore contextual factors influencing the feasibility of integrated RH-HIV care delivery; data were analysed thematically, combining deductive and inductive approaches.\n Results demonstrated that clinic models were not as integrated in practice as had been claimed.\n Fragmentation of HIV care was common.\n Services accessed per provider were no higher at the more integrated clinics compared to stand-alone models (p&gt;0.05), despite reported demand.\n While women at more integrated sites received more FP and pregnancy counselling than stand-alone models, they received condoms (a method of choice) less often, and there was no statistical evidence of difference in unmet FP needs by model of care.\n Multiple contextual factors influenced integration practices, including provider de-skilling within sub-specialist roles; norms of task-oriented routinised HIV care; perceptions of heavy client loads; imbalanced client-provider interactions hindering articulation of RH needs; and provider motivation challenges.\n Thus, despite institutional support, factors related to the social context of care inhibited provision of fully integrated RH-HIV services in these clinics.\n Programmes should move beyond simplistic training and equipment provision if integrated care interventions are to be sustained.\n","id":"PMC4433110","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Public Library of Science","authors":[{"firstname":"Kathryn","surname":"Church","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Alison","surname":"Wringe","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Simon","surname":"Lewin","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"George B.","surname":"Ploubidis","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Phelele","surname":"Fakudze","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"NULL","surname":"NULL","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Susannah H.","surname":"Mayhew","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Kebede","surname":"Deribe","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Kebede","surname":"Deribe","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1097/QAI.0000000000000694","date":"2015-04-13","title":"Implementation and Operational Research: A Randomized Noninferiority Trial of AccuCirc Device Versus Mogen Clamp for Early Infant Male Circumcision in Zimbabwe","abstract":"Background:\nEarly infant male circumcision (EIMC) is a potential key HIV prevention intervention, providing it can be safely and efficiently implemented in sub-Saharan Africa.\n\n Here, we present results of a randomized noninferiority trial of EIMC comparing the AccuCirc device with Mogen clamp in Zimbabwe.\n\n\nMethods:\nBetween January and June 2013, eligible infants were randomized to EIMC through either AccuCirc or Mogen clamp conducted by a doctor, using a 2:1 allocation ratio.\n\n Participants were followed for 14 days post-EIMC.\n\n Primary outcomes for the trial were EIMC safety and acceptability.\n\n\nResults:\nOne hundred fifty male infants were enrolled in the trial and circumcised between 6 and 54 days postpartum (n = 100 AccuCirc; n = 50 Mogen clamp).\n\n Twenty-six infants (17%) were born to HIV-infected mothers.\n\n We observed 2 moderate adverse events (AEs) [2%, 95% confidence interval (CI): 0.2 to 7.0] in the AccuCirc arm and none (95% CI: 0.0 to 7.1) in the Mogen clamp arm.\n\n The cumulative incident risk of AEs was 2.0% higher in the AccuCirc arm compared with the Mogen Clamp arm (95% CI: ?0.7 to 4.7).\n\n As the 95% CI excludes the predefined noninferiority margin of 6%, the result provides evidence of noninferiority of AccuCirc compared with the Mogen clamp.\n\n Nearly all mothers (99.5%) reported great satisfaction with the outcome.\n\n All mothers, regardless of arm said they would recommend EIMC to other parents, and would circumcise their next son.\n\n\nConclusions:\nThis first randomized trial of AccuCirc versus Mogen clamp for EIMC demonstrated that EIMC using these devices is safe and acceptable to parents.\n\n There was no difference in the rate of AEs by device.\n\n\n","id":"PMC4508202","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"JAIDS Journal of Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndromes","authors":[{"firstname":"Webster","surname":"Mavhu","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Natasha","surname":"Larke","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Karin","surname":"Hatzold","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Getrude","surname":"Ncube","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Helen A.","surname":"Weiss","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Collin","surname":"Mangenah","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Owen","surname":"Mugurungi","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Juliet","surname":"Mufuka","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Christopher A.","surname":"Samkange","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Judith","surname":"Sherman","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Gerald","surname":"Gwinji","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Frances M.","surname":"Cowan","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ismail","surname":"Ticklay","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.1377/hlthaff.2016.0564","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Ambulance service associated with reduced probabilities of neonatal and infant mortality in two Indian states","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Embedded Implementation Research &amp; Delivery Science: improving programme performance and facilitating scale up of effective interventions","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Delivering Improved Health Outcomes: Recognizing Stakeholder's Roles and Leveraging Incentives and Disincentives in Implementation Research and Delivery Science","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1111/j.0887-378X.2004.00325.x","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Diffusion of innovations in service organizations: systematic review and recommendations","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1146/annurev-publhealth-031210-101222","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Systems science methods in public health: dynamics, networks, and agents","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1007/s10488-010-0327-7","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Advancing a Conceptual Model of Evidence-Based Practice Implementation in Public Service Sectors","abstract":"Implementation science is a quickly growing discipline.\n Lessons learned from business and medical settings are being applied but it is unclear how well they translate to settings with different historical origins and customs (e.\ng.\n, public mental health, social service, alcohol/drug sectors).\n The purpose of this paper is to propose a multi-level, four phase model of the implementation process (i.\ne.\n, Exploration, Adoption/Preparation, Implementation, Sustainment), derived from extant literature, and apply it to public sector services.\n We highlight features of the model likely to be particularly important in each phase, while considering the outer and inner contexts (i.\ne.\n, levels) of public sector service systems.\n","id":"PMC3025110","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Springer US","authors":[{"firstname":"Gregory A.","surname":"Aarons","email":"gaarons@ucsd.edu","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Michael","surname":"Hurlburt","email":"hurlburt@usc.edu","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Sarah McCue","surname":"Horwitz","email":"Sarah.Horwitz@stanford.edu","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Defining scale-up across disciplines: an annotated bibliography","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Sustainability of evidence-based programs in education","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1002/job.1773","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Implementation teams: a new lever for organizational change","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1177/1049731509335549","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Core implementation components","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1186/s13012-016-0439-x","date":"2016-05-07","title":"Understanding the dynamics of the <italic>Seguro Popular de Salud</italic> policy implementation in Mexico from a complex adaptive systems perspective","abstract":"Background\nid='Par1'>In 2003, Mexico’s Seguro Popular de Salud (SPS), was launched as an innovative financial mechanism implemented to channel new funds to provide health insurance to 50 million Mexicans and to reduce systemic financial inequities.\n\n The objective of this article is to understand the complexity and dynamics that contributed to the adaptation of the policy in the implementation stage, how these changes occurred, and why, from a complex and adaptive systems perspective.\n\n\nMethods\nid='Par2'>A complex adaptive systems (CAS) framework was used to carry out a secondary analysis of data obtained from four SPS’s implementation evaluations.\n\n We first identified key actors, their roles, incentives and power, and their responses to the policy and guidelines.\n\n We then developed a causal loop diagram to disentangle the feedback dynamics associated with the modifications of the policy implementation which we then analyzed using a CAS perspective.\n\n\nResults\nid='Par3'>Implementation variations were identified in seven core design features during the first 10 years of implementation period, and in each case, the SPS’s central coordination introduced modifications in response to the reactions of the different actors.\n\n We identified several CAS phenomena associated with these changes including phase transitions, network emergence, resistance to change, history dependence, and feedback loops.\n\n\nConclusions\nid='Par4'>Our findings generate valuable lessons to policy implementation processes, especially those involving a monetary component, where the emergence of coping mechanisms and other CAS phenomena inevitably lead to modifications of policies and their interpretation by those who implement them.\n\n These include the difficulty of implementing strategies that aim to pool funds through solidarity among beneficiaries where the rich support the poor when there are no incentives for the rich to do so.\n\n Also, how resistance to change and history dependence can pose significant challenges to implementing changes, where the local actors use their significant power to oppose or modify these changes.\n\n\n","id":"PMC4866010","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"BioMed Central","authors":[{"firstname":"Gustavo","surname":"Nigenda","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Luz María","surname":"González-Robledo","email":"luz.gonzalez@uaem.mx","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Clara","surname":"Juárez-Ramírez","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Taghreed","surname":"Adam","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.1007/s10198-009-0180-3","date":"2009-08-18","title":"Health insurance for the poor: impact on catastrophic and out-of-pocket health expenditures in Mexico","abstract":"The goal of Seguro Popular (SP) in Mexico was to improve the financial protection of the uninsured population against excessive health expenditures.\n This paper estimates the impact of SP on catastrophic health expenditures (CHE), as well as out-of-pocket (OOP) health expenditures, from two different sources.\n First, we use the SP Impact Evaluation Survey (2005–2006), and compare the instrumental variables (IV) results with the experimental benchmark.\n Then, we use the same IV methods with the National Health and Nutrition Survey (ENSANUT 2006).\n We estimate naïve models, assuming exogeneity, and contrast them with IV models that take advantage of the specific SP implementation mechanisms for identification.\n The IV models estimated included two-stage least squares (2SLS), bivariate probit, and two-stage residual inclusion (2SRI) models.\n Instrumental variables estimates resulted in comparable estimates against the “gold standard.\n” Instrumental variables estimates indicate a reduction of 54% in catastrophic expenditures at the national level.\n SP beneficiaries also had lower expenditures on outpatient and medicine expenditures.\n The selection-corrected protective effect is found not only in the limited experimental dataset, but also at the national level.\n","id":"PMC2888946","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Springer-Verlag","authors":[{"firstname":"Omar","surname":"Galárraga","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Sandra G.","surname":"Sosa-Rubí","email":"srubi@insp.mx","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Aarón","surname":"Salinas-Rodríguez","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Sergio","surname":"Sesma-Vázquez","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Furthering dissemination and implementation research: the need for more attention to external validity","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1093/heapol/czw082","date":"2016-05-31","title":"District decision-making for health in low-income settings: a feasibility study of a data-informed platform for health in India, Nigeria and Ethiopia","abstract":"Low-resource settings often have limited use of local data for health system planning and decision-making.\n To promote local data use for decision-making and priority setting, we propose an adapted framework: a data-informed platform for health (DIPH) aimed at guiding coordination, bringing together key data from the public and private sectors on inputs and processes.\n In working to transform this framework from a concept to a health systems initiative, we undertook a series of implementation research activities including background assessment, testing and scaling up of the intervention.\n This first paper of four reports the feasibility of the approach in a district health systems context in five districts of India, Nigeria and Ethiopia.\n We selected five districts using predefined criteria and in collaboration with governments.\n After scoping visits, an in-depth field visit included interviews with key health stakeholders, focus group discussions with service-delivery staff and record review.\n For analysis, we used five dimensions of feasibility research based on the TELOS framework: technology and systems, economic, legal and political, operational and scheduling feasibility.\n We found no standardized process for data-based district level decision-making, and substantial obstacles in all three countries.\n Compared with study areas in Ethiopia and Nigeria, the health system in Uttar Pradesh is relatively amenable to the DIPH, having relative strengths in infrastructure, technological and technical expertise, and financial resources, as well as a district-level stakeholder forum.\n However, a key challenge is the absence of an effective legal framework for engagement with India’s extensive private health sector.\n While priority-setting may depend on factors beyond better use of local data, we conclude that a formative phase of intervention development and pilot-testing is warranted as a next step.\n","id":"PMC5009223","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Oxford University Press","authors":[{"firstname":"Bilal Iqbal","surname":"Avan","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Della","surname":"Berhanu","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Nasir","surname":"Umar","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Deepthi","surname":"Wickremasinghe","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Joanna","surname":"Schellenberg","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]}]}]},{"doi":"10.1002/ijgo.13045","date":"1970-01-01","title":"A qualitative study of the experiences of pregnant women in accessing healthcare services during the Zika virus epidemic in Villavicencio, Colombia, 2015–2016","abstract":"Objective\nTo explore the perceptions and experiences of pregnant women in accessing healthcare services during the epidemic in Colombia during 2015–2016.\nMethods\nA qualitative study using semistructured interviews was conducted in Villavicencio.\n\n Six women who had been diagnosed with Zika virus infection during their pregnancies and whose fetus had suspected microcephaly participated in the investigation.\n\n Grounded theory was used and thematic content analysis was made for each category identified.\n\n\nResults\nThree main themes affecting access to healthcare services were identified: (1) women knew basic information about the virus, but it was limited; (2) access to services was delayed due to their lack of availability or limited supply in the municipality; and (3) most of the participants made out?of?pocket payments to get access to services that were not provided.\n\n\nConclusions\nSeveral gaps were identified in the provision of healthcare services to pregnant women during the Zika epidemic.\n\n Policy makers need to utilize the results from affected communities to develop and implement public policies that adapt and respond to their priorities and needs.\n\n\n","id":"PMC7065052","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"John Wiley and Sons Inc.","authors":[{"firstname":"Hector M.","surname":"Gomez","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":" Carlos","surname":"Mejia Arbelaez","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":" Jovana A.","surname":"Ocampo Cañas","email":"ja.ocampo@uniandes.edu.co","contributions":"1"}],"Full Text":"A qualitative study of the experiences of pregnant women in accessing healthcare services during the Zika virus epidemic in Villavicencio, Colombia, 2015-2016\nAbstract\nObjective\nTo explore the perceptions and experiences of pregnant women in accessing healthcare services during the epidemic in Colombia during 2015-2016.\nMethods\nA qualitative study using semistructured interviews was conducted in Villavicencio. Six women who had been diagnosed with Zika virus infection during their pregnancies and whose fetus had suspected microcephaly participated in the investigation. Grounded theory was used and thematic content analysis was made for each category identified.\nResults\nThree main themes affecting access to healthcare services were identified: (1) women knew basic information about the virus, but it was limited; (2) access to services was delayed due to their lack of availability or limited supply in the municipality; and (3) most of the participants made out-of-pocket payments to get access to services that were not provided.\nConclusions\nSeveral gaps were identified in the provision of healthcare services to pregnant women during the Zika epidemic. Policy makers need to utilize the results from affected communities to develop and implement public policies that adapt and respond to their priorities and needs.\nPolicy makers need to consider identified gaps when they adapt and implement new clinical care guidelines for maternal and perinatal health.\nINTRODUCTION\nA year after the 2015 Zika virus outbreak in Latin America, the World Health Organization (WHO) recognized a causal relationship between Zika virus infection during pregnancy and the development of newborn microcephaly and neurologic sequelae.1, 2, 3 Before this outbreak, the known signs and symptoms of Zika virus infection had only included mild fever, malaise, headache, arthralgia, conjunctivitis, and rash.4 Although there were reports of Guillain-Barre syndrome associated with Zika virus,5 no deaths had been reported.6 Given the neurologic sequelae in newborns associated with Zika virus infection during pregnancy, the high direct and indirect costs related to microcephaly management and consequences,7 and the risk of future outbreaks, Zika virus has since been considered a public health priority.8 \nIn the Americas, from October 25, 2015 to December 29, 2016, there were 177 614 confirmed cases of Zika virus infection and 2525 confirmed congenital syndromes associated with it.9 In Colombia, there were 6363 confirmed cases of Zika virus infection in pregnant women since the beginning of the epidemic in 2015 through December 31, 2016.10 Moreover, there were 318 cases of newborn microcephaly attributed to pregnancy-related Zika virus infection during the epidemic phase of the virus through July 2016.11 \nThe department of Meta, with a population of 961 292, was fourth among the departments in Colombia that registered the most confirmed cases of pregnancy-related Zika virus infections (8.7%), behind Norte de Santander (16.8%), Valle del Cauca (12.9%), and Huila (10.8%).10 Meta contributed to the overall national burden, with around 9% of confirmed infections and 2% of newborns with microcephaly.\nIn response to the 2015 epidemic, WHO raised a call to action for local governments to develop public health interventions that would aim to prevent the consequences of Zika virus infection, particularly in pregnant women and women of childbearing age. Following these recommendations, the Colombian Ministry of Health (MoH) and the National Institute of Health (NIH) developed a series of guidelines and protocols to mitigate the effects of the outbreak.12, 13 While guidelines for the general population were published in January 2016, it was not until February 2016 that a guideline specifically addressed the clinical approach for pregnant women and women of childbearing age at risk of Zika virus infection.14 This document was intended to give healthcare providers evidence-based information about prevention strategies, counseling for women and their families, diagnosis criteria, and other measures including guidance on voluntary termination of pregnancy and follow-up of suspected and confirmed cases to mitigate the consequences of exposure to Zika virus during pregnancy.\nDespite the existence of these national guidelines since February 2016, additional confirmed cases of pregnant women infected with Zika virus and newborns afflicted with microcephaly arose after this date. Previous studies of vector-borne diseases explained an association between poor health outcomes and some determinants of health.15, 16 Specifically for Zika virus, factors that can affect the prevention, diagnosis, and management of the infection and its consequences include poor vector control strategies, poor sanitation, knowledge gaps in Zika transmission and its health consequences, lack of strategies for birth control, and poor access to healthcare services such as prenatal care.17, 18, 19 To our knowledge, there are no studies that explore factors that influence access to healthcare services from the perspective of pregnant women infected with Zika virus. Recognizing and understanding the experiences of women in accessing health care during the Zika virus outbreak will help improve the guidelines and their implementation in future outbreaks.\nThe aim of the present study was to explore and analyze the experiences in accessing healthcare services of pregnant women diagnosed with Zika virus whose newborns had microcephaly.\nMATERIALS AND METHODS\nThe study was conducted in the municipality of Villavicencio, Meta, Colombia between September 1, 2015 and December 31, 2016. Even though Villavicencio only contributed a small proportion of the disease burden, we chose this municipality because it had a strong surveillance system and rapidly implemented the WHO, Colombian MoH, and Colombian NHI protocols.\nWe conducted a qualitative study using semistructured interviews of pregnant or recently pregnant women infected with Zika virus. The study was a subcomponent of a larger project looking at the health system response and clinical approaches to pregnant women affected by Zika virus in two municipalities of Colombia.\nStudy participants were purposely selected from the National Public Health Surveillance System (SIVIGILA) and the municipality's records. A total of 12 cases of microcephaly associated with Zika virus infection in the mother during the perinatal period were identified and selected as the study population. Of these 12 cases, five had incomplete identification and contact information, wrong phone numbers, or did not answer phone calls despite several attempts, which excluded them from the study. One participant was excluded because she had moved to another city. The authors contacted the remaining six eligible participants via telephone to provide a general description of the project including background, objectives, and methods.\nA total of six semistructured interviews were conducted using a research instrument that had been previously piloted, adjusted, and refined based on the women's feedback, the conceptual framework chosen for this research, and the aim of the study. The interview guide included sociodemographic characteristics, followed by guiding questions around two main topics. The first set of questions focused on maternity care and family planning, which encompassed basic knowledge about family planning methods and its usage history, maternity expectations, and cultural beliefs. The second set of questions focused on healthcare services, with an in-depth inquiry regarding the step-by-step process of accessing services, as well as knowledge about prevention and transmission of Zika virus, counseling on voluntary termination of pregnancy, pregnancy outcomes, follow-up performed during their pregnancy and after delivery, and overall satisfaction with healthcare services. The complete set of themes, subthemes, and guiding questions can be found in supporting information Table S1.\nOne of the authors (HG) conducted all interviews in Spanish between April 20, 2018 and June 20, 2018. Each of the interviews lasted between 21 and 60 minutes. They were performed in private to ensure confidentiality at a location chosen by the participant. In some cases, and by request of the participant, relatives accompanied and contributed to the interview.\nThe authors obtained written informed consent before each interview. All interviews were audio recorded. The authors reassured the participants that they did not have any legal affiliations with healthcare providers or insurers and that participation in the study would not affect the care they had been receiving in any way. Participants could withdraw consent at any point during the research and they could avoid answering any question they did not want to answer.\nData were analyzed using grounded theory, where the researcher generates a theory with regard to a phenomenon, process, or action that comes from a specific context and from the perspective of different participants. Those theories should derive from data that were obtained during field exploration and should be compared with prior literature. Additionally, we used the conceptual framework of access to healthcare services proposed by Levesque et al.20 This framework defines access to healthcare as the opportunity to identify healthcare needs, to seek, reach, obtain, or use healthcare services, and to have those needs fulfilled.20 \nInterviews were transcribed verbatim and cross-checked by the authors for accuracy. Furthermore, the interviewer included field notes in each transcript that provided complementary information regarding the context and behaviors of the interviewee that could not be captured in the audio recordings.\nDuring the analysis phase, a set of categories were defined based on the instrument guide and the conceptual framework chosen for the analysis. A deductive thematic analysis was used to elaborate a codebook with the definition of each category and subcategory, to provide the coder with a guide for the encoding process. These category definitions were based on the conceptual framework, existing literature, and in concepts and procedures outlined in the national management guidelines for women suspected to have Zika virus infection. Besides the previously described deductive approach, the authors implemented an inductive approach to code qualitative data, allowing the coding of new emergent categories while the text was examined. Next, review and re-evaluation of the obtained categories and subcategories was made to simplify and refine them according to the conceptual framework initially proposed. A final set of categories and subcategories was achieved. The detailed set of categories can be found in supporting information Table S2. NVivo 12 (QSR International, Doncaster, Vic., Australia) was used for codification of data.\nThis research was executed according to one of the objectives included in the larger project. Ethical approval for the larger project was obtained from the University of los Andes' Ethics Review Committee (certificate No. 658, 2016) and by the PAHO Ethics Review Committee on July 20, 2017 (certificate No. PAHO-2017-04-0042).\nRESULTS\nA total of six women participated in the study. The average age of the participants was 26 years (range, 21-30 years). At the time of the interview, two participants had a professional degree, three were in university, and one had completed high school. Five participants were in stable relationships, and one was a single mother. Four were permanent residents of Villavicencio, and two lived in nearby municipalities. Three women were primiparous, and the rest had had one prior pregnancy. All participants referred to their pregnancies as wanted, but only half referred to it as a planned pregnancy.21 \nThree main themes were identified: (1) Zika virus knowledge; (2) availability of healthcare resources and timely access to services; and (3) out-of-pocket payments for access to healthcare services.\nZika virus knowledge\nWhat did women know about Zika virus and the epidemic in their town?\nBy the time of pregnancy, all women reported having a basic knowledge of Zika virus infection such as signs and symptoms, transmission, prevention strategies, and the possible consequences for the fetus. All participants knew mosquitoes transmitted the virus and that Zika could cause a disease. When asked about other ways of transmission, only one participant mentioned vertical transmission and sexual intercourse.\nRegarding signs and symptoms, participants recognized fever, malaise, and cutaneous rash as the most common clinical manifestations. One of the participants referred that the symptoms of Zika virus infection were similar to those of the Chikungunya virus.\nWomen talked about how to reduce the risk of Zika virus infection. Strategies included using insect repellent and bed nets, as well as impacting the life cycle of the mosquito by avoiding stagnant water deposits at home, as well as fumigation. Furthermore, two women mentioned postponing pregnancy during an epidemic to reduce the risk of the fetus being affected by Zika virus.\nAll women understood that Zika virus infection during pregnancy could have consequences for the fetus. While some referred to the consequences as general severe defects, most mentioned microcephaly as a significant sequela in the baby.\nAll participants knew they were at risk of Zika virus infection in their municipality given the geographic characteristics of the municipality and the epidemic situation.\nWhere did the participants obtain information on Zika virus?\nI was almost five months pregnant, and then they [physicians] said that nothing was going to happen to my baby since the baby was already formed. Participant 3, age 23 \nRight now Zika is trending. In a few months another disease will come out, let's say &quot;the AH1N1: next year that disease is going to come out,&quot; he said. [...] &quot;Some diseases are coming out, and these are like strategies that medicine has created. They create the disease in order to generate a necessity for such drugs.&quot; Participant 5, age 30 \nAll women revealed that they acquired most of the information about Zika virus from the news, other media, family members, and friends. Although all participants attended prenatal checkups with nurses, general practitioners, or gynecologists, five women did not receive any information regarding Zika virus risks, modes of transmission, or the risks of sequelae for their babies. Only one participant reported that she had been actively reminded during prenatal visits to her physician about ways to reduce the risks of transmission and possible consequences for her baby. Two of the participants reported that they sought advice and help from physicians when they thought they had been infected by the Zika virus.  \nAvailability of healthcare resources and timely access to services\nWere the required healthcare resources available?\nEvery participant was able to attend prenatal checkups in Villavicencio during their pregnancy through public health insurance, performed either by a nurse or general practitioner; only a few had access to a gynecologist. One woman said she had to move from her hometown to Villavicencio to access health care and prenatal checkups. However, most women mentioned that prenatal ultrasounds or lab tests were not always possible owing to lack of authorization from their public healthcare provider and lack of timely access to specialists.\nAll women who were suspected of having Zika virus infection during pregnancy underwent blood tests to confirm the diagnosis. However, samples were transported to Bogota (120 km away) because the necessary infrastructure for sample processing was not available in Villavicencio.\nWere women able to access healthcare services on time?\nWomen explained that prenatal checkups, laboratory tests, and obstetric ultrasounds were not always provided promptly by their public healthcare insurance. One participant mentioned she received timely health care because she had access to private providers.\nWe went every eight days there, where I had the tests, to find out when we were going to obtain them. However, the answer from them was that it was taking longer because the tests were not performed here in Villavicencio. So, the test results took around one year. Participant 1, age 22 \nOne of the most common themes throughout the interviews was the significant delay and the difficulty in obtaining test results that had been performed to confirm or rule out Zika virus infection. Some women mentioned that they had pursued legal actions to obtain these results. One woman received the results of her confirmatory test when her baby was 5 months old although the sample had been taken during her seventh week of pregnancy. Similarly, another woman stated: \nOut-of-pocket payments to access healthcare services\nMost women reported that they made direct out-of-pocket payments to healthcare providers during their pregnancy or during childbirth to access specialty care, laboratories, or special procedures. This was because these services were either not covered by their public healthcare insurance or because they were not provided on time. One woman mentioned that she had to pay out-of-pocket for ultrasounds during pregnancy.\nDISCUSSION\nAll participants knew something about Zika virus; however, there were some important knowledge gaps, especially surrounding the asymptomatic course of Zika virus. This viral infection is asymptomatic in up to 80% of cases.22 Despite the high level of education of participants, another knowledge gap was recognition of transmission other than mosquito bites.\nMost participants revealed that by the time they were pregnant they knew of the possible neurologic sequelae for their developing fetus if they became infected during pregnancy. This information is crucial for all women of childbearing age and pregnant women since knowing the possible consequences for their child can improve adherence to prevention strategies and follow-up care during pregnancy. A population that recognizes the risk of infection can help shape health behaviors and improve health outcomes,23 which can facilitate future public health interventions.\nNotwithstanding the national guidelines provided by the Colombian MoH that healthcare providers should share Zika virus information with women at risk of infection,14 only one of the participants mentioned that she was actively reminded of this information at every prenatal checkup. The remaining women made it clear that they were not counseled about the virus. Instead, most of the information came from TV news, radio, and the internet. Even though education provided by healthcare professionals needs to be improved, policymakers could also take advantage of the grand scope of the media and consider this strategy for disseminating public health knowledge to the population.24 \nAccurate evidence-based information was not always provided to women at risk. This is critical given that the association between Zika virus infection in pregnant women and neurologic consequences for their fetuses had been widely recognized by 2016.25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30 On the other hand, some women have received incorrect information questioning the reality of the epidemic and the origin of the disease.31, 32 This lack of accurate information provided by healthcare professionals can have a severe impact on diagnosis and treatment of patients seeking medical advice. Further investigation needs to focus on health professionals' knowledge and communication strategies about Zika virus, and how patient education is being disseminated.\nDespite the availability of specialists in obstetrics and gynecology in Villavicencio, prenatal checkups were predominantly carried out by nurses or general practitioners for women suspected to have Zika virus infection during their pregnancy. According to national guidelines, these women should be followed as a high-risk pregnancy, hence, requiring care by specialists. Lack of knowledge of the existing guidelines during pregnancy could have negatively impacted the follow-up by specialists. In addition, lack of follow-up could have resulted from administrative barriers associated with a woman's Administrative Entity of Benefits Plan (EAPB, Spanish acronym).\nWomen reported delayed access to prenatal laboratory testing and ultrasounds, including test results, owing to administrative reasons such as delayed authorization from their EAPB. Another factor identified in the interviews was the fragmentation of the public health system in which a lack of coordination between stakeholders influences how services are provided.33 Other factors contributing to delays in obtaining test results were samples processed only in the capital city, high demand for the service nationwide, and no clarity in protocols for the delivery of results to women:all leading to lack of coordination between the NIH, EAPBs, local health authorities, and hospitals.\nDelay in diagnosis can have severe consequences for affected women, limiting actions during the pregnancy such as seeking early fetal confirmation tests or voluntary termination of pregnancy, which:according to national guidelines:has to be counseled to affected women given the risk of severe neurologic sequelae for their children.14 \nAccess to healthcare services for newborns with suspected microcephaly associated with Zika virus was difficult for most of the women interviewed mainly due to the limited number of required specialized physicians in Villavicencio, which resulted in delayed medical appointments. According to the national guidelines for the clinical management of congenital anomalies of fetuses exposed to Zika virus during pregnancy, a thorough and comprehensive follow-up is required34; however, most women agreed that their children did not get the appropriate health care promptly. This calls into question the appropriate interpretation and implementation of the guidelines by healthcare providers; furthermore, that the guidelines may be omitting the context in which the epidemic happened given the lack of availability of laboratories, procedures, and specialized physicians in the affected municipalities.\nHealth authorities in the municipality of Villavicencio, and other regions in Colombia with similar contexts, need to take into consideration the gaps in healthcare services that have been identified in the present study when they adapt and implement new clinical care guidelines (such as PAIS [Healthcare Attention Policies], MIAS [Integral Healthcare Attention Model], and RIAS [Integral Healthcare Attention Routes]) for maternal and perinatal health.35, 36 \nAll women in the study made out-of-pocket payments either during their pregnancy or for their affected child. These payments were made to access medical consults, laboratory tests, and procedures that are included in the Obligatory Health Plan (POS, Spanish acronym). They were not performed for several reasons that acted as barriers, including multiple administrative procedures and authorization denials by a woman's EAPB. In other cases, women made out-of-pocket payments to access procedures in a timely manner.\nOut-of-pocket expenditure should not occur for provision of these services since they are included in the POS, and hence are covered by the public healthcare insurer. Provision of a sufficient supply of services according to the population's needs, reducing administrative barriers for access to services, and determining why out-of-pocket payments are being made need to be investigated. Evidence shows that higher out-of-pocket payments result in poorer population health outcomes.37 \nThe study has some limitations. The participants selected were cases reported to SIVIGILA; therefore, the experiences of women not recorded in the public surveillance system were not included in this study. Moreover, from the 12 cases identified in the surveillance system, we were only able to interview six women because there was erroneous or missing contact information. This reflects the need to improve the quality of reporting undertaken by healthcare professionals through the notification sheets. The possible consequences of not including the entire eligible population include the risk of leaving out different experiences than those reported in the study, and consequently variation in the overall results.\nThe study was conducted in only one of the affected municipalities during the epidemic in Colombia. For a broader approach in other contexts, experiences of women with the same characteristics are being investigated in the larger project:of which the present study forms a part:in other affected municipalities in Colombia. Considering the specific localization of the present study, transferability of the results to other municipalities or environments should be considered with caution.\nIn terms of policy recommendations from the study, health policies to address and mitigate Zika virus infection must consider the particularities of the virus and how it affects women.\nBasic knowledge of modes of transmission, prevention strategies, signs and symptoms, and possible neurologic consequences for the fetus need to be maintained and expanded not only for pregnant women but also for women of reproductive age and their partners; taking advantage of the media as the main source of information recognized in the study should be considered. For this purpose, an intersectoral approach is needed, including stakeholders involved at all levels:from health authorities and policymakers to the affected community.\nPrioritized attention should be given to pregnant women including raising their awareness of the signs and symptoms of the virus, actions to prevent infection, possible consequences for their developing fetus, and counseling about their right to access voluntary termination of pregnancy when applicable.\nSexual and reproductive health education should focus on women aged between 15 and 49 years, as well as for men with a female partner of reproductive age. Furthermore, it should be included during preconception and prenatal checkup counseling on aspects such as the effects of Zika virus infection, different methods used for prevention, diagnosis, and management. This education should be provided by the corresponding healthcare professional who is following the pregnancy.\nProviding healthcare services on time could reduce the out-of-pocket payments revealed by women in the present study since most of these costs were due to the delay in accessing those services. Availability of timely healthcare services can be achieved by guaranteeing sufficient human resources, which should include gynecologists-obstetricians, pediatricians, and neuropediatricians.\nThe lack of continuity of care highlights the lack of coordination and the fragmentation of the healthcare system and the poor communication among stakeholders. Improved collaborative work and close follow-up of these patients will positively impact their health outcomes.\nIncreased surveillance by health authorities, such as the national superintendence of health, of EAPBs and institutions providing healthcare services is needed to guarantee that the national guidelines for the management and treatment of pregnant women and children affected by Zika virus are accurately implemented and followed. One way to encourage adherence to guidelines is a recognition and reward system for EAPBs and healthcare services institutions such as certifications or distinctions of national recognition for excellence in maternal-infant services.\nIn conclusion, access to healthcare services by pregnant women with suspected Zika virus infection whose fetuses had suspected or confirmed microcephaly was positively influenced by high levels of knowledge of basic information about Zika virus and negatively influenced by poor provision of timely healthcare, lack of continuity in health care, and out-of-pocket expenditure. These gaps and perceived barriers to access were in part due to the fragmentation of the healthcare system and lack of interaction and communication between the different stakeholders.\nWe encourage investigators to conduct further qualitative research that explores access to healthcare services for women affected by Zika virus. Understanding the population's needs and priorities, and identifying the gaps in healthcare services, can lead to improvements in the provision of services for current or future affected populations.\nAUTHOR CONTRIBUTIONS\nJAOC and HG designed the study and collected the data. HG analyzed and interpreted the data. HG, JAOC, and CMA contributed to manuscript preparation. The authors are responsible for the opinions expressed in this publication, which do not necessarily reflect the opinions or political decisions of the institutions to which they are affiliated, or of the institutions who kindly supported the study.\nCONFLICTS OF INTEREST\nThe authors have no conflicts of interest.\nSupporting information\nREFERENCES\nMicrocephaly and Zika virus infection\nZika virus and birth defects:reviewing the evidence for causality\nCongenital Zika Syndrome &amp; Other Birth Defects\nEpidemiology of Zika virus, 1947-2007\nZika virus infection complicated by Guillain-Barre syndrome - case report, French Polynesia, December 2013\nZika virus in the Americas:yet another arbovirus threat\nA Socio-economic Impact Assessment of the Zika Virus in Latin America and the Caribbean: with a focus on Brazil, Colombia and Suriname\nZika virus: A public health threat\nZika Cumulative Cases - 29-December\nWeekly epidemilogical bulletin No. 52\nWeekly epidemilogical bulletin No. 29\nPublic Health Surveillance Protocol: Zika Virus Disease\nResponse Plan against Zika Virus Fever\nProvisional Guidelines for the Clinical Approach of Pregnant Women Exposed to Zika virus in Colombia\nThe prevention and control of HIV/AIDS, TB and vector-borne diseases in informal settlements: Challenges, opportunities and insights\nDengue and health care access: The role of social determinants of health in dengue surveillance in Colombia\nThe zika virus epidemic in Brazil: From discovery to future implications\nZika virus: Transmission, detection, control, and prevention\nWomen's reproductive health knowledge, attitudes and practices in relation to the Zika virus outbreak in northeast Brazil\nPatient-centred access to health care: Conceptualising access at the interface of health systems and populations\nEpidemiological bulletin, Villavicencio 2016: Behaviour of the Events of Interest in Public Health\nPrevalence of asymptomatic Zika virus infection: A systematic review\nRisk perceptions and health behavior\nUse of mass media campaigns to change health behaviour\nNeurological syndrome, congenital malformations, and Zika virus infection. Implications for public health in the Americas\nPossible association between Zika virus infection and microcephaly:Brazil, 2015\nZika virus status report: Neurological syndrome and congenital anomalies\nMicrocephaly and Zika virus: A clinical and epidemiological analysis of the current outbreak in Brazil\nPregnancy management in the context of Zika virus infection\nZika virus and birth defects:reviewing the evidence for causality\nZika virus infection - Brazil and Colombia\nZika virus\nBarriers in access to health care in managed competence models: A case study in Colombia\nResolucion 0429 de 2016\nResolucion No. 3280 de 2018\nHigh out-of-pocket medical spending among the poor and elderly in nine developed countries\n","References depth 1":[{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Microcephaly and Zika virus infection","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[{"doi":"10.1038/s41598-020-69235-0","date":"2020-07-09","title":"Zika virus infection in pregnancy and adverse fetal outcomes in São Paulo State, Brazil: a prospective cohort study","abstract":"id='Par1'>Robust epidemiological and biological evidence supports a causal link between prenatal Zika Virus (ZIKV) infection and congenital brain abnormalities including microcephaly.\n However, it remains uncertain if ZIKV infection in pregnancy also increases the risk for other adverse fetal and birth outcomes.\n In a prospective cohort study we investigated the influence of ZIKV on the prevalence of prematurity, low birth weight, small-for-gestational-age, and fetal death as well as microcephaly (i.\ne.\n, overall and disproportionate) in the offspring of women attending a high-risk pregnancy clinic during the recent ZIKV outbreak in Brazil.\n During the recruitment period (01 March 2016–23 August 2017), urine samples were tested for ZIKV by RT-PCR from all women attending the high-risk pregnancy clinic at Jundiaí University Hospital and from the neonates after delivery.\n Of the 574 women evaluated, 44 (7.7%) were ZIKV RT-PCR positive during pregnancy.\n Of the 409 neonates tested, 19 (4.6%) were ZIKV RT-PCR positive in the first 10 days of life.\n In this cohort, maternal ZIKV exposure was not associated with increased risks of prematurity, low birth weight, small-for-gestational-age, or fetal death.\n However, relative to ZIKV-negative neonates, ZIKV-positive infants had a five-fold increased risk of microcephaly overall (RR 5.1, 95% CI 1.2–22.5) and a ten-fold increased risk of disproportionate microcephaly (RR 10.3, 95% CI 2.0–52.6).\n Our findings provide new evidence that, in a high-risk pregnancy cohort, ZIKV RT-PCR positivity in the neonate at birth is strongly associated with microcephaly.\n However, ZIKV infection during pregnancy does not appear to influence the risks of prematurity, low birth weight, small-for-gestational-age or fetal death in women who already have gestational comorbidities.\n The results suggest disproportion between neonatal head circumference and weight may be a useful screening indicator for the detection of congenital microcephaly associated with ZIKV infection.\n","id":"PMC7391725","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Nature Publishing Group UK","authors":[{"firstname":"Nuria","surname":"Sanchez Clemente","email":"nuriasanchezclemente@gmail.com","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Elizabeth B.","surname":"Brickley","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Enny S.","surname":"Paixão","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Marcia F.","surname":"De Almeida","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Marcia F.","surname":"De Almeida","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Rosa E.","surname":"Gazeta","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Danila","surname":"Vedovello","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Laura C.","surname":"Rodrigues","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Steven S.","surname":"Witkin","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Saulo D.","surname":"Passos","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.1002/uog.17404","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Association between Zika virus and fetopathy: a prospective cohort study in French Guiana","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.12688/f1000research.13704.1","date":"2018-01-25","title":"Zika virus infection as a cause of congenital brain abnormalities and Guillain-Barré syndrome: From systematic review to living systematic review","abstract":"\nBackground.\n The Zika virus (ZIKV) outbreak in the Americas has caused international concern due to neurological sequelae linked to the infection, such as microcephaly and Guillain-Barré syndrome (GBS).\n The World Health Organization stated that there is “sufficient evidence to conclude that Zika virus is a cause of congenital abnormalities and is a trigger of GBS”.\n This conclusion was based on a systematic review of the evidence published until 30.05.2016. Since then, the body of evidence has grown substantially, leading to this update of that systematic review with new evidence published from 30.05.2016 – 18.01.2017, update 1.","id":"PMC6290976","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"F1000 Research Limited","authors":[{"firstname":"Michel Jacques","surname":"Counotte","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Dianne","surname":"Egli-Gany","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Dianne","surname":"Egli-Gany","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Maurane","surname":"Riesen","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Maurane","surname":"Riesen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Million","surname":"Abraha","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Teegwendé Valérie","surname":"Porgo","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Teegwendé Valérie","surname":"Porgo","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jingying","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Jingying","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Nicola","surname":"Low","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Alfonso","surname":"Rodriguez-Morales","email":"NULL","contributions":"3"},{"firstname":"Alfonso","surname":"Rodriguez-Morales","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Alfonso","surname":"Rodriguez-Morales","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hugh J.","surname":"Willison","email":"NULL","contributions":"3"},{"firstname":"Hugh J.","surname":"Willison","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hugh J.","surname":"Willison","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Katrina J.","surname":"Sullivan","email":"NULL","contributions":"3"},{"firstname":"Katrina J.","surname":"Sullivan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Katrina J.","surname":"Sullivan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1371/journal.pone.0242367","date":"2020-10-31","title":"Congenital Zika syndrome: A systematic review","abstract":"Background\nThe signs and symptoms of Zika virus infection are usually mild and self-limited.\n\n However, the disease has been linked to neurological complications such as Guillain-Barré syndrome and peripheral nerve involvement, and also to abortion and fetal deaths due to vertical transmission, resulting in various congenital malformations in newborns, including microcephaly.\n\n This review aimed to describe the o signs and symptoms that characterize the congenital Zika syndrome.\n\n\nMethods and findings\nA systematic review was performed with a protocol and described according to the recommendations of the Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses statement.\n\n The search strategy yielded 2,048 studies.\n\n After the exclusion of duplicates and application of inclusion criteria, 46 studies were included.\n\n The main signs and symptoms associated with the congenital Zika syndrome were microcephaly, parenchymal or cerebellar calcifications, ventriculomegaly, central nervous system hypoplasia or atrophy, arthrogryposis, ocular findings in the posterior and anterior segments, abnormal visual function and low birthweight for gestational age.\n\n\nConclusions\nZika virus infection during pregnancy can cause a series of changes in the growth and development of children, while impacting the healthcare system due to the severity of cases.\n\n Our findings outline the disease profile in newborns and infants and may contribute to the development and updating of more specific clinical protocols.\n\n\n","id":"PMC7737899","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Public Library of Science","authors":[{"firstname":"Danielle A.","surname":"Freitas","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Reinaldo","surname":"Souza-Santos","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Reinaldo","surname":"Souza-Santos","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Liege M. A.","surname":"Carvalho","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Wagner B.","surname":"Barros","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Luiza M.","surname":"Neves","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Patrícia","surname":"Brasil","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Mayumi D.","surname":"Wakimoto","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Kazumichi","surname":"Fujioka","email":"NULL","contributions":"6"},{"firstname":"Kazumichi","surname":"Fujioka","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Aya","surname":"Mousa","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Aya","surname":"Mousa","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Kazumichi","surname":"Fujioka","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Kazumichi","surname":"Fujioka","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Kazumichi","surname":"Fujioka","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Kazumichi","surname":"Fujioka","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.2471/BLT.16.176990","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Defining the syndrome associated with congenital Zika virus infection","abstract":"","id":"PMC4890216","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"World Health Organization","authors":[{"firstname":"Anthony","surname":"Costello","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Tarun","surname":"Dua","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Pablo","surname":"Duran","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Metin","surname":"Gülmezoglu","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Olufemi T","surname":"Oladapo","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"William","surname":"Perea","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"João","surname":"Pires","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Pilar","surname":"Ramon-Pardo","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Nigel","surname":"Rollins","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Shekhar","surname":"Saxena","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.3201/eid2508.180915","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Zika Virus Infection in Pregnant Women, Yucatan, Mexico","abstract":"Infection was associated with a high incidence of symptomatic disease but no congenital syndrome.\n","id":"PMC6649335","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Centers for Disease Control and Prevention","authors":[{"firstname":"Yamila","surname":"Romer","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Nina","surname":"Valadez-Gonzalez","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Silvina","surname":"Contreras-Capetillo","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Pablo","surname":"Manrique-Saide","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Gonzalo","surname":"Vazquez-Prokopec","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Norma","surname":"Pavia-Ruz","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.1056/NEJMoa1602412","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Zika virus infection in pregnant women in Rio de Janeiro","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/S1473-3099(19)30293-2","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Emergence of the Asian lineage of Zika virus in Angola: an outbreak investigation","abstract":"Background\nZika virus infections and suspected microcephaly cases have been reported in Angola since late 2016, but no data are available about the origins, epidemiology, and diversity of the virus.\n\n We aimed to investigate the emergence and circulation of Zika virus in Angola.\n\n\nMethods\nDiagnostic samples collected by the Angolan Ministry of Health as part of routine arboviral surveillance were tested by real-time reverse transcription PCR by the Instituto Nacional de Investigação em Saúde (Ministry of Health, Luanda, Angola).\n\n To identify further samples positive for Zika virus and appropriate for genomic sequencing, we also tested samples from a 2017 study of people with HIV in Luanda.\n\n Portable sequencing was used to generate Angolan Zika virus genome sequences from three people positive for Zika virus infection by real-time reverse transcription PCR, including one neonate with microcephaly.\n\n Genetic and mobility data were analysed to investigate the date of introduction and geographical origin of Zika virus in Angola.\n\n Brain CT and MRI, and serological assays were done on a child with microcephaly to confirm microcephaly and assess previous Zika virus infection.\n\n\nFindings\nSerum samples from 54 people with suspected acute Zika virus infection, 76 infants with suspected microcephaly, 24 mothers of infants with suspected microcephaly, 336 patients with suspected dengue virus or chikungunya virus infection, and 349 samples from the HIV study were tested by real-time reverse transcription PCR.\n\n Four cases identified between December, 2016, and June, 2017, tested positive for Zika virus.\n\n Analyses of viral genomic and human mobility data suggest that Zika virus was probably introduced to Angola from Brazil between July, 2015, and June, 2016. This introduction probably initiated local circulation of Zika virus in Angola that continued until at least June, 2017. The infant with microcephaly in whom CT and MRI were done had brain abnormalities consistent with congenital Zika syndrome and serological evidence for Zika virus infection.\n\n\nInterpretation\nOur analyses show that autochthonous transmission of the Asian lineage of Zika virus has taken place in Africa.\n\n Zika virus surveillance and surveillance of associated cases of microcephaly throughout the continent is crucial.\n\n\nFunding\nRoyal Society, Wellcome Trust, Global Challenges Research Fund (UK Research and Innovation), Africa Oxford, John Fell Fund, Oxford Martin School, European Research Council, Departamento de Ciência e Tecnologia/Ministério da Saúde/National Council for Scientific and Technological Development, and Ministério da Educação/Coordenação de Aperfeicoamento de Pessoal de Nível Superior.\n\n\n","id":"PMC6892302","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Elsevier Science ;, The Lancet Pub. Group","authors":[{"firstname":"Sarah C","surname":"Hill","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jocelyne","surname":"Vasconcelos","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Zoraima","surname":"Neto","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Domingos","surname":"Jandondo","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Líbia","surname":"Zé-Zé","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Renato Santana","surname":"Aguiar","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Joilson","surname":"Xavier","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Julien","surname":"Thézé","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Marinela","surname":"Mirandela","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ana Luísa","surname":"Micolo Cândido","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Filipa","surname":"Vaz","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Cruz dos Santos","surname":"Sebastião","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Chieh-Hsi","surname":"Wu","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Moritz U G","surname":"Kraemer","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Adriana","surname":"Melo","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Bruno L F","surname":"Schamber-Reis","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Girlene S","surname":"de Azevedo","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Amilcar","surname":"Tanuri","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Luiza M","surname":"Higa","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Carina","surname":"Clemente","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Sara Pereira","surname":"da Silva","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Darlan","surname":"da Silva Candido","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ingra M","surname":"Claro","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Domingos","surname":"Quibuco","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Cristóvão","surname":"Domingos","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Bárbara","surname":"Pocongo","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Alexander G","surname":"Watts","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Kamran","surname":"Khan","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Luiz Carlos Junior","surname":"Alcantara","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ester C","surname":"Sabino","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Eve","surname":"Lackritz","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Oliver G","surname":"Pybus","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Maria-João","surname":"Alves","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Joana","surname":"Afonso","email":"jfm.morais9@gmail.com","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Nuno R","surname":"Faria","email":"nuno.faria@zoo.ox.ac.uk","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Lourenco J, de Lourdes Monteiro M, Valdez T, Monteiro Rodrigues J, Pybus O, Rodrigues Faria N. Epidemiology of the Zika virus outbreak in the Cabo Verde Islands, West Africa. PLoS Curr. 2018;10. doi:10.1371/currents.outbreaks.19433b1e4d007451c691f138e1e67e8c","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.3390/ijerph15020220","date":"2018-01-24","title":"<italic>Aedes</italic> Mosquitoes and <italic>Aedes</italic>-Borne Arboviruses in Africa: Current and Future Threats","abstract":"The Zika crisis drew attention to the long-overlooked problem of arboviruses transmitted by Aedes mosquitoes in Africa.\n Yellow fever, dengue, chikungunya and Zika are poorly controlled in Africa and often go unrecognized.\n However, to combat these diseases, both in Africa and worldwide, it is crucial that this situation changes.\n Here, we review available data on the distribution of each disease in Africa, their Aedes vectors, transmission potential, and challenges and opportunities for Aedes control.\n Data on disease and vector ranges are sparse, and consequently maps of risk are uncertain.\n Issues such as genetic and ecological diversity, and opportunities for integration with malaria control, are primarily African; others such as ever-increasing urbanization, insecticide resistance and lack of evidence for most control-interventions reflect problems throughout the tropics.\n We identify key knowledge gaps and future research areas, and in particular, highlight the need to improve knowledge of the distributions of disease and major vectors, insecticide resistance, and to develop specific plans and capacity for arboviral disease surveillance, prevention and outbreak responses.\n","id":"PMC5858289","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"MDPI","authors":[{"firstname":"David","surname":"Weetman","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Basile","surname":"Kamgang","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Athanase","surname":"Badolo","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Athanase","surname":"Badolo","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Catherine L.","surname":"Moyes","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Catherine L.","surname":"Moyes","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Freya M.","surname":"Shearer","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Freya M.","surname":"Shearer","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Mamadou","surname":"Coulibaly","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"João","surname":"Pinto","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Louis","surname":"Lambrechts","email":"NULL","contributions":"4"},{"firstname":"Louis","surname":"Lambrechts","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Philip J.","surname":"McCall","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Philip J.","surname":"McCall","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1371/journal.pone.0151586","date":"2016-02-29","title":"Describing the Prevalence of Neural Tube Defects Worldwide: A Systematic Literature Review","abstract":"Background\nFolate-sensitive neural tube defects (NTDs) are an important, preventable cause of morbidity and mortality worldwide.\n\n There is a need to describe the current global burden of NTDs and identify gaps in available NTD data.\n\n\nMethods and Findings\nWe conducted a systematic review and searched multiple databases for NTD prevalence estimates and abstracted data from peer-reviewed literature, birth defects surveillance registries, and reports published between January 1990 and July 2014 that had greater than 5,000 births and were not solely based on mortality data.\n\n We classified countries according to World Health Organization (WHO) regions and World Bank income classifications.\n\n The initial search yielded 11,614 results; after systematic review we identified 160 full text manuscripts and reports that met the inclusion criteria.\n\n Data came from 75 countries.\n\n Coverage by WHO region varied in completeness (i.\n\ne.\n\n, % of countries reporting) as follows: African (17%), Eastern Mediterranean (57%), European (49%), Americas (43%), South-East Asian (36%), and Western Pacific (33%).\n\n The reported NTD prevalence ranges and medians for each region were: African (5.2–75.4; 11.7 per 10,000 births), Eastern Mediterranean (2.1–124.1; 21.9 per 10,000 births), European (1.3–35.9; 9.0 per 10,000 births), Americas (3.3–27.9; 11.5 per 10,000 births), South-East Asian (1.9–66.2; 15.8 per 10,000 births), and Western Pacific (0.3–199.4; 6.9 per 10,000 births).\n\n The presence of a registry or surveillance system for NTDs increased with country income level: low income (0%), lower-middle income (25%), upper-middle income (70%), and high income (91%).\n\n\nConclusions\nMany WHO member states (120/194) did not have any data on NTD prevalence.\n\n Where data are collected, prevalence estimates vary widely.\n\n These findings highlight the need for greater NTD surveillance efforts, especially in lower-income countries.\n\n NTDs are an important public health problem that can be prevented with folic acid supplementation and fortification of staple foods.\n\n\n","id":"PMC4827875","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Public Library of Science","authors":[{"firstname":"Ibrahim","surname":"Zaganjor","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ahlia","surname":"Sekkarie","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Becky L.","surname":"Tsang","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jennifer","surname":"Williams","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Hilda","surname":"Razzaghi","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Joseph","surname":"Mulinare","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Joseph E.","surname":"Sniezek","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Michael J.","surname":"Cannon","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jorge","surname":"Rosenthal","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Rogelio","surname":"Cruz-Martinez","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Rogelio","surname":"Cruz-Martinez","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1186/s12985-019-1176-y","date":"2019-05-06","title":"Serological evidence of <italic>Flavivirus</italic> circulation in human populations in Northern Kenya: an assessment of disease risk 2016–2017","abstract":"Background\nid='Par1'>Yellow fever, Dengue, West Nile and Zika viruses are re-emerging mosquito-borne Flaviviruses of public health concern.\n\n However, the extent of human exposure to these viruses and associated disease burden in Kenya and Africa at large remains unknown.\n\n We assessed the seroprevalence of Yellow fever and other Flaviviruses in human populations in West Pokot and Turkana Counties of Kenya.\n\n These areas border Uganda, South Sudan and Ethiopia where recent outbreaks of Yellow fever and Dengue have been reported, with possibility of spillover to Kenya.\n\n\nMethodology\nid='Par2'>Human serum samples collected through a cross-sectional survey in West Pokot and Turkana Counties were screened for neutralizing antibodies to Yellow fever, Dengue-2, West Nile and Zika virus using the Plaque Reduction Neutralization Test (PRNT).\n\n Seroprevalence was compared by county, site and important human demographic characteristics.\n\n Adjusted odds ratios (aOR) were estimated using Firth logistic regression model.\n\n\nResults\nid='Par3'>Of 877 samples tested, 127 neutralized with at least one of the four flaviviruses (14.5, 95% CI 12.3–17.0%), with a higher proportion in Turkana (21.1%, n =?87/413) than in West Pokot (8.6%, n =?40/464).\n\n Zika virus seroprevalence was significantly higher in West Pokot (7.11%) than in Turkana County (0.24%; ?2\nP &lt;?0.0001).\n\n A significantly higher Yellow fever virus seroprevalence was also observed in Turkana (10.7%) compared to West Pokot (1.29%; ?2 P?&lt;?0.0001).\n\n A high prevalence of West Nile virus was detected in Turkana County only (10.2%) while Dengue was only detected in one sample, from West Pokot.\n\n The odds of infection with West Nile virus was significantly higher in males than in females (aOR?=?2.55, 95% CI 1.22–5.34).\n\n Similarly, the risk of Zika virus infection in West Pokot was twice higher in males than females (aOR?=?2.01, 95% CI 0.91–4.41).\n\n\nConclusion\nid='Par4'>Evidence of neutralizing antibodies to West Nile and Zika viruses indicates that they have been circulating undetected in human populations in these areas.\n\n While the observed Yellow Fever prevalence in Turkana and West Pokot Counties may imply virus activity, we speculate that this could also be as a result of vaccination following the Yellow Fever outbreak in the Omo river valley, South Sudan and Uganda across the border.\n\n\nElectronic supplementary material\nThe online version of this article (10.1186/s12985-019-1176-y) contains supplementary material, which is available to authorized users.\n\n\n","id":"PMC6525424","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"BioMed Central","authors":[{"firstname":"E.","surname":"Chepkorir","email":"echepkorir@icipe.org","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"D. P.","surname":"Tchouassi","email":"dtchouassi@icipe.org","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"D. P.","surname":"Tchouassi","email":"dtchouassi@icipe.org","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"S. L.","surname":"Konongoi","email":"limbaso@gmail.com","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"J.","surname":"Lutomiah","email":"Joel.lutomiah@usamru-k.org","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"C.","surname":"Tigoi","email":"carotigoi@gmail.com","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Z.","surname":"Irura","email":"zirura@gmail.com","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"F.","surname":"Eyase","email":"Fredrick.Eyase@usamru-k.org","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"M.","surname":"Venter","email":"marietjie.venter@up.ac.za","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"R.","surname":"Sang","email":"rsang@icipe.org","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.3201/eid2607.191363","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Zika Virus Detection with 2013 Serosurvey, Mombasa, Kenya","abstract":"Acute Zika virus (ZIKV) infection has not been confirmed in Kenya.\n In 2018, we used specimens collected in a 2013 dengue serosurvey study in Mombasa to test for ZIKV IgM.\n We confirmed specific ZIKV IgM positivity in 5 persons.\n These results suggest recent ZIKV transmission in the coastal region of Kenya.\n","id":"PMC7323522","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Centers for Disease Control and Prevention","authors":[{"firstname":"Elizabeth","surname":"Hunsperger","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Dennis","surname":"Odhiambo","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Albina","surname":"Makio","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Moshe","surname":"Alando","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Melvin","surname":"Ochieng","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Victor","surname":"Omballa","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Peninah","surname":"Munyua","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Godfrey","surname":"Bigogo","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"M. Kariuki","surname":"Njenga","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Marc-Alain","surname":"Widdowson","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.3389/fimmu.2020.00334","date":"2020-02-10","title":"Cross-Reactive Immunity Among Flaviviruses","abstract":"Flaviviruses consist of significant human pathogens responsible for hundreds of millions of infections each year.\n Their antigenic relationships generate immune responses that are cross-reactive to multiple flaviviruses and their widespread and overlapping geographical distributions, coupled with increases in vaccination coverage, increase the likelihood of exposure to multiple flaviviruses.\n Depending on the antigenic properties of the viruses to which a person is exposed, flavivirus cross-reactivity can be beneficial or could promote immune pathologies.\n In this review we describe our knowledge of the functional immune outcomes that arise from varied flaviviral immune statuses.\n The cross-reactive antibody and T cell immune responses that are protective versus pathological are also addressed.\n","id":"PMC7054434","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Frontiers Media S.A.","authors":[{"firstname":"Abhay P. S.","surname":"Rathore","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ashley L.","surname":"St. John","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.1038/s41467-021-21199-z","date":"2021-01-16","title":"Recent African strains of Zika virus display higher transmissibility and fetal pathogenicity than Asian strains","abstract":"id='Par1'>The global emergence of Zika virus (ZIKV) revealed the unprecedented ability for a mosquito-borne virus to cause congenital birth defects.\n A puzzling aspect of ZIKV emergence is that all human outbreaks and birth defects to date have been exclusively associated with the Asian ZIKV lineage, despite a growing body of laboratory evidence pointing towards higher transmissibility and pathogenicity of the African ZIKV lineage.\n Whether this apparent paradox reflects the use of relatively old African ZIKV strains in most laboratory studies is unclear.\n Here, we experimentally compare seven low-passage ZIKV strains representing the recently circulating viral genetic diversity.\n We find that recent African ZIKV strains display higher transmissibility in mosquitoes and higher lethality in both adult and fetal mice than their Asian counterparts.\n We emphasize the high epidemic potential of African ZIKV strains and suggest that they could more easily go unnoticed by public health surveillance systems than Asian strains due to their propensity to cause fetal loss rather than birth defects.\n","id":"PMC7876148","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Nature Publishing Group UK","authors":[{"firstname":"Fabien","surname":"Aubry","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Sofie","surname":"Jacobs","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Maïlis","surname":"Darmuzey","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Maïlis","surname":"Darmuzey","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Sebastian","surname":"Lequime","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Leen","surname":"Delang","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Leen","surname":"Delang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Albin","surname":"Fontaine","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Albin","surname":"Fontaine","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Natapong","surname":"Jupatanakul","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Elliott F.","surname":"Miot","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Elliott F.","surname":"Miot","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Stéphanie","surname":"Dabo","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Stéphanie","surname":"Dabo","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Caroline","surname":"Manet","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Xavier","surname":"Montagutelli","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Artem","surname":"Baidaliuk","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Artem","surname":"Baidaliuk","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Fabiana","surname":"Gámbaro","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Fabiana","surname":"Gámbaro","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Etienne","surname":"Simon-Lorière","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Maxime","surname":"Gilsoul","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Maxime","surname":"Gilsoul","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Claudia M.","surname":"Romero-Vivas","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Van-Mai","surname":"Cao-Lormeau","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Richard G.","surname":"Jarman","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Cheikh T.","surname":"Diagne","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Oumar","surname":"Faye","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ousmane","surname":"Faye","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Amadou A.","surname":"Sall","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Johan","surname":"Neyts","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Laurent","surname":"Nguyen","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Laurent","surname":"Nguyen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Suzanne J. F.","surname":"Kaptein","email":"suzanne.kaptein@kuleuven.be","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Suzanne J. F.","surname":"Kaptein","email":"suzanne.kaptein@kuleuven.be","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Louis","surname":"Lambrechts","email":"louis.lambrechts@pasteur.fr","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Louis","surname":"Lambrechts","email":"louis.lambrechts@pasteur.fr","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1590/0074-02760160149","date":"2016-06-29","title":"Mapping the global geographic potential of Zika virus\nspread","abstract":"The Americas are presently experiencing the most serious known outbreak of Zika virus\n(ZIKV).\n Here, we present a novel set of analyses using environmental characteristics,\nvector mosquito distributions, and socioeconomic risk factors to develop the first\nmap to detail global ZIKV transmission risk in multiple dimensions based on\necological niche models.\n Our model predictions were tested against independent\nevaluation data sets, and all models had predictive ability significantly better than\nrandom expectations.\n The study addresses urgent knowledge gaps regarding (1) the\npotential geographic scope of the current ZIKV epidemic, (2) the global potential for\nspread of ZIKV, and (3) drivers of ZIKV transmission.\n Our analysis of potential\ndrivers of ZIKV distributions globally identified areas vulnerable in terms of some\ndrivers, but not for others.\n The results of these analyses can guide regional\neducation and preparedness efforts, such that medical personnel will be better\nprepared for diagnosis of potential ZIKV cases as they appear.\n","id":"PMC5027865","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Instituto Oswaldo Cruz, Ministério da Saúde","authors":[{"firstname":"Abdallah M.","surname":"Samy","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Stephanie M","surname":"Thomas","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ahmed Abd El","surname":"Wahed","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Kevin P","surname":"Cohoon","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"A. Townsend","surname":"Peterson","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.1016/j.jbi.2008.08.010","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Research electronic data capture (REDCap)-a metadata-driven methodology and workflow process for providing translational research informatics support","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/S0140-6736(14)60932-6","date":"1970-01-01","title":"International standards for newborn weight, length, and head circumference by gestational age and sex: the Newborn Cross-Sectional Study of the INTERGROWTH-21st Project","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Zika MAC-ELISA: instructions for use. Atlanta; 2018. Available: https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/emergency-situations-medical-devices/emergency-use-authorizations-medical-devices#zika","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1089/vim.2008.0007","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Guidelines for plaque-reduction neutralization testing of human antibodies to dengue viruses","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1186/s12879-020-05042-2","date":"2020-04-16","title":"Prevalence of Zika virus neutralizing antibodies in healthy adults in Vietnam during and after the Zika virus epidemic season: a longitudinal population-based survey","abstract":"Background\nid='Par1'>Between 2016 and 2019, 265 cases of Zika virus (ZIKV) infection were reported in Vietnam, predominantly in southern Vietnam.\n\n In 2016, a case of ZIKV-associated microcephaly was confirmed in the Central Highlands, and several members of the infant’s family were confirmed to be infected with ZIKV.\n\n The study aims to determine the level of immunity to ZIKV in the general population of the ZIKV epidemic region.\n\n\nMethods\nid='Par2'>A total of 879 serum samples were collected from 801 participants between January 2017 and July 2018, during and after the ZIKV epidemic in Vietnam.\n\n The samples were tested for anti-ZIKV immunoglobulin M (IgM) and immunoglobulin G (IgG), and anti-dengue virus (DENV) IgG antibodies using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays (ELISA).\n\n Plaque-reduction neutralization test (PRNT) for ZIKV was performed on all samples, and for DENV on the samples that ZIKV neutralizing antibody positive.\n\n\nResults\nid='Par3'>A total of 83 (10.3%) participants had anti-ZIKV IgM.\n\n Of the 83, 6 were confirmed to be ZIKV antibodies positive using PRNT and anti-ZIKV IgG ELISA.\n\n Of the 718 participants who were anti-ZIKV IgM negative, a further 3 cases were confirmed as positive for antibodies against ZIKV.\n\n Of the 9 participants with ZIKV infection, 5 lived in the same village as the infant with ZIKV-associated microcephaly and the other 4 lived in 2 neighboring communes.\n\n Repeat samples were collected from the 83 ZIKV IgM positive participants 1.5?years after the first collection.\n\n No new cases of ZIKV infection were detected.\n\n In addition, 2 of 3 participants with anti-ZIKV NS1 IgG demonstrated a 4- to 8-fold increase in ZIKV neutralizing antibody titer.\n\n\nConclusions\nid='Par4'>ZIKV was present in the area around Krong Buk, with the rate of ZIKV-specific antibodies was 1.1% in the community since at least 2016. While the low levels of circulation together with low seroprevalence suggests a limited outbreak in the region, the results also reflect on low levels of protective immunity to Zika within the population.\n\n These results provide a better understanding of the current ZIKV epidemic status in the region and demonstrate a need for implementation of more effective ZIKV infection control measures.\n\n\n","id":"PMC7216417","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"BioMed Central","authors":[{"firstname":"Co Thach","surname":"Nguyen","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Meng Ling","surname":"Moi","email":"sherry@nagasaki-u.ac.jp","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Thi Quynh Mai","surname":"Le","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Thi Thu Thuy","surname":"Nguyen","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Thi Bich Hau","surname":"Vu","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Hai Tuan","surname":"Nguyen","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Thi Thu Hang","surname":"Pham","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Thi Hien Thu","surname":"Le","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Le Manh Hung","surname":"Nguyen","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Minh Huong","surname":"Phu Ly","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Chris Fook Sheng","surname":"Ng","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Taichiro","surname":"Takemura","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Kouichi","surname":"Morita","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Futoshi","surname":"Hasebe","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.3390/v12060641","date":"2020-06-11","title":"Zika Virus in West Africa: A Seroepidemiological Study between 2007 and 2012","abstract":"According to the World Health Organization, the entire African continent is at risk of a Zika outbreak.\n To increase data availability on the epidemiology of Zika virus circulation in Africa, we evaluated the immunity to Zika virus in a selected cohort of subjects from West Africa between 2007 and 2012. Human serum samples were collected in 2007 and in 2011/2012 from a cohort of 2–29-year-old subjects from Mali, Senegal, and The Gambia.\n A sample that tested positive by Zika virus IgG ELISA and by Zika virus microneutralization test was defined as positive.\n In 2007, the highest prevalence was 21.9%, found in Senegal among 18–29-year-old subjects.\n In 2011/2012, the highest prevalence, 22.7%, was found still in Senegal, but in 11–17-year-old subjects.\n During both study periods, the lowest prevalence was found in Mali, where few positive cases were found only in 18–29-year-old subjects.\n The Gambia showed an intermediate prevalence.\n In the three countries, prevalence was strongly associated with increasing age.\n This study contributes to understanding Zika virus circulation within three different ecological and demographic contexts with scarce or no data currently available.\n Results showed that Zika virus circulated actively in West Africa between the period 2007 and 2011/2012, but with some geographic specificity.\n","id":"PMC7354557","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"MDPI","authors":[{"firstname":"Serena","surname":"Marchi","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Simonetta","surname":"Viviani","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Simonetta","surname":"Viviani","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Emanuele","surname":"Montomoli","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Yuxiao","surname":"Tang","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Adele","surname":"Boccuto","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ilaria","surname":"Vicenti","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Ilaria","surname":"Vicenti","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Maurizio","surname":"Zazzi","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Maurizio","surname":"Zazzi","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Samba","surname":"Sow","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Samba","surname":"Sow","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Aldiouma","surname":"Diallo","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Olubukola T.","surname":"Idoko","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Niranjan","surname":"Bhat","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Niranjan","surname":"Bhat","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Claudia Maria","surname":"Trombetta","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"R Core Team. R Development Core Team. R: a language and environment for statistical computing. 2017. pp. 275-286. http://www.R-project.org","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1093/ve/veaa026","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Origin and evolution of dengue virus type 2 causing outbreaks in Kenya: Evidence of circulation of two cosmopolitan genotype lineages","abstract":"Dengue fever (DF) is an arboviral disease caused by dengue virus serotypes 1-4 (DENV 1-4).\n Globally, DF incidence and disease burden have increased in the recent past.\n Initially implicated in a 1982 outbreak, DENV-2 recently reemerged in Kenya causing outbreaks between 2011 and 2014 and more recently 2017–8. The origin and the evolutionary patterns that may explain the epidemiological expansion and increasing impact of DENV-2 in Kenya remain poorly understood.\n Using whole-genome sequencing, samples collected during the 2011–4 and 2017–8 dengue outbreaks were analyzed.\n Additional DENV-2 genomes were downloaded and pooled together with the fourteen genomes generated in this study.\n Bioinformatic methods were used to analyze phylogenetic relationships and evolutionary patterns of DENV-2 causing outbreaks in Kenya.\n The findings from this study have shown the first evidence of circulation of two different Cosmopolitan genotype lineages of DENV-2; Cosmopolitan-I (C-I) and Cosmopolitan-II (C-II), in Kenya.\n Our results put the origin location of C-I lineage in India in 2011, and C-II lineage in Burkina Faso between 1979 and 2013. C-I lineage was the most isolated during recent outbreaks, thus showing the contribution of this newly emerged strain to the increased DENV epidemics in the region.\n Our findings, backed by evidence of recent local epidemics that have been associated with C-I in Kenya and C-II in Burkina Faso, add to the growing evidence of expanding circulation and the impact of multiple strains of DENV in the region as well as globally.\n Thus, continued surveillance efforts on DENV activity and its evolutionary trends in the region, would contribute toward effective control and the current vaccine development efforts.\n","id":"PMC7266482","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Oxford University Press","authors":[{"firstname":"Solomon K","surname":"Langat","email":"solomon.langat@usamru-k.org","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Fredrick Lunyagi","surname":"Eyase","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Fredrick Lunyagi","surname":"Eyase","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Irina Maljkovic","surname":"Berry","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Albert","surname":"Nyunja","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Wallace","surname":"Bulimo","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Samuel","surname":"Owaka","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Victor","surname":"Ofula","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Samson","surname":"Limbaso","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Joel","surname":"Lutomiah","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Richard","surname":"Jarman","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"John","surname":"Distelhorst","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Rosemary C","surname":"Sang","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.1186/s12985-016-0641-0","date":"2016-10-24","title":"Detection of dengue virus serotypes 1, 2 and 3 in selected regions of Kenya: 2011–2014","abstract":"Background\nDengue fever, a mosquito-borne disease, is associated with illness of varying severity in countries in the tropics and sub tropics.\n\n Dengue cases continue to be detected more frequently and its geographic range continues to expand.\n\n We report the largest documented laboratory confirmed circulation of dengue virus in parts of Kenya since 1982.\nMethods\nFrom September 2011 to December 2014, 868 samples from febrile patients were received from hospitals in Nairobi, northern and coastal Kenya.\n\n The immunoglobulin M enzyme linked immunosorbent assay (IgM ELISA) was used to test for the presence of IgM antibodies against dengue, yellow fever, West Nile and Zika.\n\n Reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) utilizing flavivirus family, yellow fever, West Nile, consensus and sero type dengue primers were used to detect acute arbovirus infections and determine the infecting serotypes.\n\n Representative samples of PCR positive samples for each of the three dengue serotypes detected were sequenced to confirm circulation of the various dengue serotypes.\n\n\nResults\nForty percent (345/868) of the samples tested positive for dengue by either IgM ELISA (14.6 %) or by RT-PCR (25.1 %).\n\n Three dengue serotypes 1–3 (DENV1-3) were detected by serotype specific RT-PCR and sequencing with their numbers varying from year to year and by region.\n\n The overall predominant serotype detected from 2011–2014 was DENV1 accounting for 44 % (96/218) of all the serotypes detected, followed by DENV2 accounting for 38.5 % (84/218) and then DENV3 which accounted for 17.4 % (38/218).\n\n Yellow fever, West Nile and Zika was not detected in any of the samples tested.\n\n\nConclusion\nFrom 2011–2014 serotypes 1, 2 and 3 were detected in the Northern and Coastal parts of Kenya.\n\n This confirmed the occurrence of cases and active circulation of dengue in parts of Kenya.\n\n These results have documented three circulating serotypes and highlight the need for the establishment of active dengue surveillance to continuously detect cases, circulating serotypes, and determine dengue fever disease burden in the country and region.\n\n\n","id":"PMC5097412","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"BioMed Central","authors":[{"firstname":"Limbaso","surname":"Konongoi","email":"Limbaso@gmail.com","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Victor","surname":"Ofula","email":"Victor.Ofula@usamru-k.org","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Albert","surname":"Nyunja","email":"Albert.Nyunja@usamru-k.org","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Samuel","surname":"Owaka","email":"Samuel.Owaka@usamru-k.org","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hellen","surname":"Koka","email":"Hellen.Koka@usamru-k.org","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Albina","surname":"Makio","email":"Albina.Makio@usamru-k.org","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Edith","surname":"Koskei","email":"Edith.Koskei@usamru-k.org","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Fredrick","surname":"Eyase","email":"Fredrick.Eyase@usamru-k.org","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Daniel","surname":"Langat","email":"langat4@yahoo.com","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Randal J.","surname":"Schoepp","email":"randal.j.schoepp.civ@mail.mil","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Cynthia Ann","surname":"Rossi","email":"cynthia.a.rossi.civ@mail.mil","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ian","surname":"Njeru","email":"iannjeru75@yahoo.com","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Rodney","surname":"Coldren","email":"Rodney.Coldren@usamru-k.org","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Rosemary","surname":"Sang","email":"Rosemary.Sang@usamru-k.org","contributions":"3"}]},{"doi":"10.12688/wellcomeopenres.15568.1","date":"2019-11-13","title":"Congenital microcephaly unrelated to flavivirus exposure in coastal Kenya","abstract":"\nBackground: Zika virus (ZIKV) was first discovered in East Africa in 1947.  ZIKV has caused microcephaly in the Americas, but it is not known whether ZIKV is a cause of microcephaly in East Africa.\n","id":"PMC7059837","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"F1000 Research Limited","authors":[{"firstname":"Hellen C.","surname":"Barsosio","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"John N.","surname":"Gitonga","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"John N.","surname":"Gitonga","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Henry K.","surname":"Karanja","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Doris K.","surname":"Nyamwaya","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Donwilliams O.","surname":"Omuoyo","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Donwilliams O.","surname":"Omuoyo","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Everlyn","surname":"Kamau","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Mainga M.","surname":"Hamaluba","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Mainga M.","surname":"Hamaluba","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Joyce U.","surname":"Nyiro","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Barnes S.","surname":"Kitsao","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Barnes S.","surname":"Kitsao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Amek","surname":"Nyaguara","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Stella","surname":"Mwakio","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Stella","surname":"Mwakio","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Charles R.","surname":"Newton","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Rosemary","surname":"Sang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Rosemary","surname":"Sang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Daniel","surname":"Wright","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Eduard J.","surname":"Sanders","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Eduard J.","surname":"Sanders","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Anna C.","surname":"Seale","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Anna C.","surname":"Seale","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Charles N.","surname":"Agoti","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"James A.","surname":"Berkley","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"James A.","surname":"Berkley","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Philip","surname":"Bejon","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Philip","surname":"Bejon","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"George M.","surname":"Warimwe","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"George M.","surname":"Warimwe","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Helen","surname":"Dolk","email":"NULL","contributions":"5"},{"firstname":"Helen","surname":"Dolk","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Helen","surname":"Dolk","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jan Felix","surname":"Drexler","email":"NULL","contributions":"3"},{"firstname":"Jan Felix","surname":"Drexler","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jan Felix","surname":"Drexler","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Thomas","surname":"Jaenisch","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Lavinia","surname":"Schuler-Faccini","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Lavinia","surname":"Schuler-Faccini","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1136/bmj.j5018","date":"2017-10-19","title":"Prevalence and clinical profile of microcephaly in South America pre-Zika, 2005-14: prevalence and case-control study","abstract":"\nObjective To describe the prevalence and clinical spectrum of microcephaly in South America for the period 2005-14, before the start of the Zika epidemic in 2015, as a baseline for future surveillance as the Zika epidemic spreads and as other infectious causes may emerge in future.\n","id":"PMC5696624","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"BMJ Publishing Group Ltd.","authors":[{"firstname":"Iêda M","surname":"Orioli","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Helen","surname":"Dolk","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jorge S","surname":"Lopez-Camelo","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Daniel","surname":"Mattos","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Fernando A","surname":"Poletta","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Maria G","surname":"Dutra","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Flavia M","surname":"Carvalho","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Eduardo E","surname":"Castilla","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.1136/bmj.i4721","date":"2016-08-30","title":"Prevalence of microcephaly in Europe: population based study","abstract":"Objectives To provide contemporary estimates of the prevalence of microcephaly in Europe, determine if the diagnosis of microcephaly is consistent across Europe, and evaluate whether changes in prevalence would be detected using the current European surveillance performed by EUROCAT (the European Surveillance of Congenital Anomalies).\n","id":"PMC5021822","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"BMJ Publishing Group Ltd.","authors":[{"firstname":"Joan K","surname":"Morris","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Judith","surname":"Rankin","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ester","surname":"Garne","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Maria","surname":"Loane","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ruth","surname":"Greenlees","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Marie-Claude","surname":"Addor","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Larraitz","surname":"Arriola","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ingeborg","surname":"Barisic","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jorieke E H","surname":"Bergman","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Melinda","surname":"Csaky-Szunyogh","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Carlos","surname":"Dias","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Elizabeth S","surname":"Draper","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Miriam","surname":"Gatt","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Babak","surname":"Khoshnood","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Kari","surname":"Klungsoyr","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jennifer J","surname":"Kurinczuk","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Catherine","surname":"Lynch","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Robert","surname":"McDonnell","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Vera","surname":"Nelen","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Amanda J","surname":"Neville","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Mary T","surname":"O’Mahony","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Anna","surname":"Pierini","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Hanitra","surname":"Randrianaivo","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Anke","surname":"Rissmann","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"David","surname":"Tucker","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Christine","surname":"Verellen-Dumoulin","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Hermien E K","surname":"de Walle","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Diana","surname":"Wellesley","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Awi","surname":"Wiesel","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Helen","surname":"Dolk","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1186/s12884-021-03705-9","date":"2021-03-10","title":"Prevalence of congenital microcephaly and its risk factors in an area at risk of Zika outbreaks","abstract":"Background\nid='Par1'>Prevalence of neonatal microcephaly in populations without Zika-epidemics is sparse.\n\n The study aimed to report baseline prevalence of congenital microcephaly and its relationship with prenatal factors in an area at risk of Zika outbreak.\n\n\nMethods\nid='Par2'>This study included singletons born after 24 gestational weeks in 2017–2018 at four hospitals in Guangzhou, China.\n\n Microcephaly was defined as a head circumference at birth &gt;3SD below the mean for sex and gestational age.\n\n Prevalence of microcephaly was estimated by binomial exact method.\n\n Multivariable logistic regression was used to examine the associations of microcephaly with prenatal factors.\n\n The population attributable fraction (PAF) for associated risk factors was calculated.\n\n\nResults\nid='Par3'>Of 46,610 live births included, 154 (3.3, 95% CI 2.8–3.9 per 1000 live births) microcephalies were identified.\n\n Maternal hepatitis B virus carriers (HBV, OR 1.80, 95% CI 1.05–3.10) and primipara (OR 2.68, 95% CI 1.89–3.81) had higher risk of having a microcephalic baby.\n\n Higher prevalence of microcephaly was observed in women who had premature labor (OR 1.98, 95% CI 1.17–3.34) and had a baby with fetal growth restriction (OR 16.38, 95% CI 11.81–22.71).\n\n Four identified factors (HBV, primiparity, preterm labor, and fetal growth restriction) contributed to 66.4% of the risk of microcephaly.\n\n\nConclusions\nid='Par4'>The prevalence of microcephaly in Guangzhou was higher than expected.\n\n This study identified four prenatal risk factors that, together, contributed to two-thirds of the increased risk of microcephaly.\n\n This is the first reported association between maternal HBV carrier status and microcephaly.\n\n\n","id":"PMC7972338","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"BioMed Central","authors":[{"firstname":"Songying","surname":"Shen","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Wanqing","surname":"Xiao","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Lifang","surname":"Zhang","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jinhua","surname":"Lu","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Anna","surname":"Funk","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jianrong","surname":"He","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Si","surname":"Tu","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jia","surname":"Yu","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Li","surname":"Yang","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Arnaud","surname":"Fontanet","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Wei","surname":"Bao","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Kar Keung","surname":"Cheng","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Xiu","surname":"Qiu","email":"xiu.qiu@bigcs.org","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.1093/infdis/jiaa158","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Zika virus circulates at low levels in western and coastal Kenya","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1099/jgv.0.001113","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Confirmation of Zika virus infection through hospital-based sentinel surveillance of acute febrile illness in Uganda, 2014-2017","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.3201/eid2302.161432","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Low Circulation of Zika Virus, Cambodia, 2007–2016","abstract":"We describe a retrospective study on circulation of Zika virus in Cambodia during 2007–2016 among patients with dengue-like symptoms and Aedes aegypti mosquitoes.\n Our findings suggest that Zika virus in Cambodia belongs to the Asia genotype, is endemic, has low prevalence, and has had low-level impact on public health.\n","id":"PMC5324809","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Centers for Disease Control and Prevention","authors":[{"firstname":"Veasna","surname":"Duong","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Sivuth","surname":"Ong","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Rithea","surname":"Leang","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Rekol","surname":"Huy","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Sowath","surname":"Ly","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ugo","surname":"Mounier","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Teyputita","surname":"Ou","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Saraden","surname":"In","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Borin","surname":"Peng","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Sreymom","surname":"Ken","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Philippe","surname":"Buchy","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Arnaud","surname":"Tarantola","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Paul F.","surname":"Horwood","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Philippe","surname":"Dussart","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.4269/ajtmh.18-0156","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Seroepidemiology of dengue, Zika, and yellow fever viruses among children in the Democratic Republic of the Congo","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1038/s41467-019-13628-x","date":"2019-11-14","title":"Impacts of Zika emergence in Latin America on endemic dengue transmission","abstract":"id='Par1'>In 2015 and 2016, Zika virus (ZIKV) swept through dengue virus (DENV) endemic areas of Latin America.\n These viruses are of the same family, share a vector and may interact competitively or synergistically through human immune responses.\n We examine dengue incidence from Brazil and Colombia before, during, and after the Zika epidemic.\n We find evidence that dengue incidence was atypically low in 2017 in both countries.\n We investigate whether subnational Zika incidence is associated with changes in dengue incidence and find mixed results.\n Using simulations with multiple assumptions of interactions between DENV and ZIKV, we find cross-protection suppresses incidence of dengue following Zika outbreaks and low periods of dengue incidence are followed by resurgence.\n Our simulations suggest correlations in DENV and ZIKV reproduction numbers could complicate associations between ZIKV incidence and post-ZIKV DENV incidence and that periods of low dengue incidence are followed by large increases in dengue incidence.\n","id":"PMC6915707","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Nature Publishing Group UK","authors":[{"firstname":"Rebecca K.","surname":"Borchering","email":"rebecca.borchering@uga.edu","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Angkana T.","surname":"Huang","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Luis","surname":"Mier-y-Teran-Romero","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Luis","surname":"Mier-y-Teran-Romero","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Diana P.","surname":"Rojas","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Isabel","surname":"Rodriguez-Barraquer","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Leah C.","surname":"Katzelnick","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Silvio D.","surname":"Martinez","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Silvio D.","surname":"Martinez","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Gregory D.","surname":"King","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Stephanie C.","surname":"Cinkovich","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Stephanie C.","surname":"Cinkovich","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Justin","surname":"Lessler","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Derek A. T.","surname":"Cummings","email":"datc@ufl.edu","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.1098/rspb.2019.1578","date":"2019-08-02","title":"Climate drives spatial variation in Zika epidemics in Latin America","abstract":"Between 2015 and 2017, Zika virus spread rapidly through populations in the Americas with no prior exposure to the disease.\n Although climate is a known determinant of many Aedes-transmitted diseases, it is currently unclear whether climate was a major driver of the Zika epidemic and how climate might have differentially impacted outbreak intensity across locations within Latin America.\n Here, we estimated force of infection for Zika over time and across provinces in Latin America using a time-varying susceptible–infectious–recovered model.\n Climate factors explained less than 5% of the variation in weekly transmission intensity in a spatio-temporal model of force of infection by province over time, suggesting that week to week transmission within provinces may be too stochastic to predict.\n By contrast, climate and population factors were highly predictive of spatial variation in the presence and intensity of Zika transmission among provinces, with pseudo-R2 values between 0.33 and 0.60. Temperature, temperature range, rainfall and population size were the most important predictors of where Zika transmission occurred, while rainfall, relative humidity and a nonlinear effect of temperature were the best predictors of Zika intensity and burden.\n Surprisingly, force of infection was greatest in locations with temperatures near 24°C, much lower than previous estimates from mechanistic models, potentially suggesting that existing vector control programmes and/or prior exposure to other mosquito-borne diseases may have limited transmission in locations most suitable for Aedes aegypti, the main vector of Zika, dengue and chikungunya viruses in Latin America.\n","id":"PMC6732388","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"The Royal Society","authors":[{"firstname":"Mallory","surname":"Harris","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jamie M.","surname":"Caldwell","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Erin A.","surname":"Mordecai","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Erin A.","surname":"Mordecai","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1126/science.abd3663","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Enhanced Zika virus susceptibility of globally invasive Aedes aegypti populations","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.3201/eid2409.170361","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Symptomatic Dengue during Pregnancy and Congenital Neurologic Malformations","abstract":"Dengue virus infection during pregnancy increased the risk for any neurologic congenital anomaly in the infant by roughly 50% and for other congenital malformations of brain 4-fold.\n Our results show an association between dengue during pregnancy and congenital anomalies of the brain, suggesting that flaviviruses other than Zika virus are associated with such malformations.\n","id":"PMC6106414","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Centers for Disease Control and Prevention","authors":[{"firstname":"Enny S.","surname":"Paixão","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Maria Glória","surname":"Teixeira","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Maria da Conceição N.","surname":"Costa","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Mauricio L.","surname":"Barreto","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Laura C.","surname":"Rodrigues","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1186/s40748-017-0054-0","date":"2017-08-24","title":"A review of selected Arboviruses during pregnancy","abstract":"id='Par1'>Arboviruses are emerging infectious diseases with the ability to expand geographically and rapidly affect large populations.\n","id":"PMC5625716","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"BioMed Central","authors":[{"firstname":"Penélope Saldanha","surname":"Marinho","email":"penelope@me.ufrj.br","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Antonio José","surname":"Cunha","email":"lampesufrj@gmail.com","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Antonio José","surname":"Cunha","email":"lampesufrj@gmail.com","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Joffre","surname":"Amim Junior","email":"joffre@me.ufrj.br","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Arnaldo","surname":"Prata-Barbosa","email":"arnaldoprata@globo.com","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.3855/jidc.908","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Dengue infections during pregnancy: case series from a tertiary care hospital in Sri Lanka","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Zika virus and birth defects:reviewing the evidence for causality","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Congenital Zika Syndrome &amp; Other Birth Defects","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[{"doi":"10.1590/0074-02760150192","date":"2015-05-25","title":"First report of autochthonous transmission of Zika virus in\nBrazil","abstract":"In the early 2015, several cases of patients presenting symptoms of mild fever, rash,\nconjunctivitis and arthralgia were reported in the northeastern Brazil.\n Although all\npatients lived in a dengue endemic area, molecular and serological diagnosis for\ndengue resulted negative.\n Chikungunya virus infection was also discarded.\n\nSubsequently, Zika virus (ZIKV) was detected by reverse transcription-polymerase\nchain reaction from the sera of eight patients and the result was confirmed by DNA\nsequencing.\n Phylogenetic analysis suggests that the ZIKV identified belongs to the\nAsian clade.\n This is the first report of ZIKV infection in Brazil.\n","id":"PMC4501423","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Instituto Oswaldo Cruz, Ministério da Saúde","authors":[{"firstname":"Camila","surname":"Zanluca","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Vanessa Campos Andrade","surname":"de Melo","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ana Luiza Pamplona","surname":"Mosimann","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Glauco Igor Viana","surname":"dos Santos","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Claudia Nunes Duarte","surname":"dos Santos","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Kleber","surname":"Luz","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.5123/S1679-49742016000400002","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Descricao Dos Primeiros Casos de Febre Pelo Virus Zika Investigados Em Municipios Da Regiao Nordeste Do Brasil, 2015","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1126/science.aaf5036","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Zika Virus in the Americas: Early Epidemiological and Genetic Findings","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1056/NEJMoa1602412","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Zika Virus Infection in Pregnant Women in Rio de Janeiro","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1001/jamapediatrics.2016.3982","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Characterizing the Pattern of Anomalies in Congenital Zika Syndrome for Pediatric Clinicians","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1590/0074-02760160085","date":"2016-03-17","title":"Zika virus damages the human placental barrier and presents marked fetal\nneurotropism","abstract":"An unusually high incidence of microcephaly in newborns has recently been observed in\nBrazil.\n There is a temporal association between the increase in cases of microcephaly\nand the Zika virus (ZIKV) epidemic.\n Viral RNA has been detected in amniotic fluid\nsamples, placental tissues and newborn and fetal brain tissues.\n However, much remains\nto be determined concerning the association between ZIKV infection and fetal\nmalformations.\n In this study, we provide evidence of the transplacental transmission\nof ZIKV through the detection of viral proteins and viral RNA in placental tissue\nsamples from expectant mothers infected at different stages of gestation.\n We observed\nchronic placentitis (TORCH type) with viral protein detection by immunohistochemistry\nin Hofbauer cells and some histiocytes in the intervillous spaces.\n We also\ndemonstrated the neurotropism of the virus via the detection of viral proteins in\nglial cells and in some endothelial cells and the observation of scattered foci of\nmicrocalcifications in the brain tissues.\n Lesions were mainly located in the white\nmatter.\n ZIKV RNA was also detected in these tissues by real-time-polymerase chain\nreaction.\n We believe that these findings will contribute to the body of knowledge of\nthe mechanisms of ZIKV transmission, interactions between the virus and host cells\nand viral tropism.\n","id":"PMC4878297","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Instituto Oswaldo Cruz, Ministério da Saúde","authors":[{"firstname":"Lucia","surname":"de Noronha","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Camila","surname":"Zanluca","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Marina Luize Viola","surname":"Azevedo","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Kleber Giovanni","surname":"Luz","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Claudia Nunes Duarte","surname":"dos Santos","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1016/j.stem.2016.10.017","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Correction: Zika Virus Disrupts Neural Progenitor Development and Leads to Microcephaly in Mice","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/j.coviro.2016.04.002","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Zika Crisis in Brazil: Challenges in Research and Development","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/j.bbrc.2017.01.158","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Zika Virus Induces Inflammasome Activation in the Glial Cell Line U87-MG","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1148/radiol.2017171238","date":"1970-01-01","title":"How Does Imaging of Congenital Zika Compare with Imaging of Other TORCH Infections?","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/S0140-6736(16)30902-3","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Congenital Zika Virus Syndrome in Brazil: A Case Series of the First 1501 Livebirths with Complete Investigation","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/S0140-6736(17)31450-2","date":"1970-01-01","title":"An Update on Zika Virus Infection","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1056/NEJMsr1604338","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Zika Virus and Birth Defects:Reviewing the Evidence for Causality","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1371/journal.ppat.1006004","date":"2016-10-16","title":"Zika (PRVABC59) Infection Is Associated with T cell Infiltration and Neurodegeneration in CNS of Immunocompetent Neonatal C57Bl/6 Mice","abstract":"The recent spread of Zika virus (ZIKV) and its association with increased rates of Guillain Barre and other neurological disorders as well as congenital defects that include microcephaly has created an urgent need to develop animal models to examine the pathogenesis of the disease and explore the efficacy of potential therapeutics and vaccines.\n Recently developed infection models for ZIKV utilize mice defective in interferon responses.\n In this study we establish and characterize a new model of peripheral ZIKV infection using immunocompetent neonatal C57BL/6 mice and compare its clinical progression, virus distribution, immune response, and neuropathology with that of C57BL/6-IFNAR KO mice.\n We show that while ZIKV infected IFNAR KO mice develop bilateral hind limb paralysis and die 5–6 days post-infection (dpi), immunocompetent B6 WT mice develop signs of neurological disease including unsteady gait, kinetic tremors, severe ataxia and seizures by 13 dpi that subside gradually over 2 weeks.\n Immunohistochemistry show viral antigen predominantly in cerebellum at the peak of the disease in both models.\n However, whereas IFNAR KO mice showed infiltration by neutrophils and macrophages and higher expression of IL-1, IL-6 and Cox2, B6 WT mice show a cellular infiltration in the CNS composed predominantly of T cells, particularly CD8+ T cells, and increased mRNA expression levels of IFNg, GzmB and Prf1 at peak of disease.\n Lastly, the CNS of B6 WT mice shows evidence of neurodegeneration predominantly in the cerebellum that are less prominent in mice lacking the IFN response possibly due to the difference in cellular infiltrates and rapid progression of the disease in that model.\n The development of the B6 WT model of ZIKV infection will provide insight into the immunopathology of the virus and facilitate assessments of possible therapeutics and vaccines.\n","id":"PMC5113993","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Public Library of Science","authors":[{"firstname":"Mohanraj","surname":"Manangeeswaran","email":"NULL","contributions":"3"},{"firstname":"Derek D. C.","surname":"Ireland","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Daniela","surname":"Verthelyi","email":"NULL","contributions":"3"},{"firstname":"Daniela","surname":"Verthelyi","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Robyn S","surname":"Klein","email":"NULL","contributions":"3"},{"firstname":"Robyn S","surname":"Klein","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Robyn S","surname":"Klein","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1371/journal.pntd.0005363","date":"2017-01-27","title":"Hydrocephalus and arthrogryposis in an immunocompetent mouse model of ZIKA teratogeny: A developmental study","abstract":"The teratogenic mechanisms triggered by ZIKV are still obscure due to the lack of a suitable animal model.\n Here we present a mouse model of developmental disruption induced by ZIKV hematogenic infection.\n The model utilizes immunocompetent animals from wild-type FVB/NJ and C57BL/6J strains, providing a better analogy to the human condition than approaches involving immunodeficient, genetically modified animals, or direct ZIKV injection into the brain.\n When injected via the jugular vein into the blood of pregnant females harboring conceptuses from early gastrulation to organogenesis stages, akin to the human second and fifth week of pregnancy, ZIKV infects maternal tissues, placentas and embryos/fetuses.\n Early exposure to ZIKV at developmental day 5 (second week in humans) produced complex manifestations of anterior and posterior dysraphia and hydrocephalus, as well as severe malformations and delayed development in 10.5 days post-coitum (dpc) embryos.\n Exposure to the virus at 7.5–9.5 dpc induces intra-amniotic hemorrhage, widespread edema, and vascular rarefaction, often prominent in the cephalic region.\n At these stages, most affected embryos/fetuses displayed gross malformations and/or intrauterine growth restriction (IUGR), rather than isolated microcephaly.\n Disrupted conceptuses failed to achieve normal developmental landmarks and died in utero.\n Importantly, this is the only model so far to display dysraphia and hydrocephalus, the harbinger of microcephaly in humans, as well as arthrogryposis, a set of abnormal joint postures observed in the human setting.\n Late exposure to ZIKV at 12.5 dpc failed to produce noticeable malformations.\n We have thus characterized a developmental window of opportunity for ZIKV-induced teratogenesis encompassing early gastrulation, neurulation and early organogenesis stages.\n This should not, however, be interpreted as evidence for any safe developmental windows for ZIKV exposure.\n Late developmental abnormalities correlated with damage to the placenta, particularly to the labyrinthine layer, suggesting that circulatory changes are integral to the altered phenotypes.\n","id":"PMC5322881","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Public Library of Science","authors":[{"firstname":"Jose","surname":"Xavier-Neto","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Murilo","surname":"Carvalho","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Bruno dos Santos","surname":"Pascoalino","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Alisson Campos","surname":"Cardoso","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ângela Maria Sousa","surname":"Costa","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ana Helena Macedo","surname":"Pereira","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Luana Nunes","surname":"Santos","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ângela","surname":"Saito","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Rafael Elias","surname":"Marques","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Juliana Helena Costa","surname":"Smetana","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Silvio Roberto","surname":"Consonni","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Carla","surname":"Bandeira","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Vivian Vasconcelos","surname":"Costa","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Marcio Chaim","surname":"Bajgelman","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Paulo Sérgio Lopes","surname":"de Oliveira","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Marli Tenorio","surname":"Cordeiro","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Laura Helena Vega","surname":"Gonzales Gil","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Bianca Alves","surname":"Pauletti","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Daniela Campos","surname":"Granato","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Adriana Franco","surname":"Paes Leme","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Lucio","surname":"Freitas-Junior","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Carolina Borsoi Moraes","surname":"Holanda de Freitas","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Mauro Martins","surname":"Teixeira","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Estela","surname":"Bevilacqua","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Kleber","surname":"Franchini","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Fatah","surname":"Kashanchi","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Fatah","surname":"Kashanchi","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1038/s41598-017-17765-5","date":"2017-11-30","title":"<italic>In situ</italic> immune response and mechanisms of cell damage in central nervous system of fatal cases microcephaly by Zika virus","abstract":"id='Par1'>Zika virus (ZIKV) has recently caused a pandemic disease, and many cases of ZIKV infection in pregnant women resulted in abortion, stillbirth, deaths and congenital defects including microcephaly, which now has been proposed as ZIKV congenital syndrome.\n This study aimed to investigate the in situ immune response profile and mechanisms of neuronal cell damage in fatal Zika microcephaly cases.\n Brain tissue samples were collected from 15 cases, including 10 microcephalic ZIKV-positive neonates with fatal outcome and five neonatal control flavivirus-negative neonates that died due to other causes, but with preserved central nervous system (CNS) architecture.\n In microcephaly cases, the histopathological features of the tissue samples were characterized in three CNS areas (meninges, perivascular space, and parenchyma).\n The changes found were mainly calcification, necrosis, neuronophagy, gliosis, microglial nodules, and inflammatory infiltration of mononuclear cells.\n The in situ immune response against ZIKV in the CNS of newborns is complex.\n Despite the predominant expression of Th2 cytokines, other cytokines such as Th1, Th17, Treg, Th9, and Th22 are involved to a lesser extent, but are still likely to participate in the immunopathogenic mechanisms of neural disease in fatal cases of microcephaly caused by ZIKV.\n","id":"PMC5758755","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Nature Publishing Group UK","authors":[{"firstname":"Raimunda S. S.","surname":"Azevedo","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jorge R.","surname":"de Sousa","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Marialva T. F.","surname":"Araujo","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Arnaldo J.","surname":"Martins Filho","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Bianca N.","surname":"de Alcantara","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Bianca N.","surname":"de Alcantara","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Fernanda M. C.","surname":"Araujo","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Maria G. L.","surname":"Queiroz","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ana C. R.","surname":"Cruz","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Beatriz H. Baldez","surname":"Vasconcelos","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jannifer O.","surname":"Chiang","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Lívia C.","surname":"Martins","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Livia M. N.","surname":"Casseb","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Eliana V.","surname":"da Silva","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Valéria L.","surname":"Carvalho","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Barbara C. Baldez","surname":"Vasconcelos","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Sueli G.","surname":"Rodrigues","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Consuelo S.","surname":"Oliveira","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Juarez A. S.","surname":"Quaresma","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Pedro F. C.","surname":"Vasconcelos","email":"pedrovasconcelos@iec.pa.gov.br","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.1002/ana.24839","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Immune Activation in Amniotic Fluid from Zika Virus-Associated Microcephaly","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1590/0074-02760170542","date":"2018-02-14","title":"Analysis of the immunological biomarker profile during acute Zika virus infection reveals the overexpression of CXCL10, a chemokine linked to neuronal damage","abstract":"BACKGROUND\nInfection with Zika virus (ZIKV) manifests in a broad spectrum of disease ranging from mild illness to severe neurological complications and little is known about Zika immunopathogenesis.\n\n\nOBJECTIVES\nTo define the immunologic biomarkers that correlate with acute ZIKV infection.\n\n\nMETHODS\nWe characterized the levels of circulating cytokines, chemokines, and growth factors in 54 infected patients of both genders at five different time points after symptom onset using microbeads multiplex immunoassay; comparison to 100 age-matched controls was performed for statistical analysis and data mining.\n\n\nFINDINGS\nZIKV-infected patients present a striking systemic inflammatory response with high levels of pro-inflammatory mediators.\n\n Despite the strong inflammatory pattern, IL-1Ra and IL-4 are also induced during the acute infection.\n\n Interestingly, the inflammatory cytokines IL-1?, IL-13, IL-17, TNF-?, and IFN-?; chemokines CXCL8, CCL2, CCL5; and the growth factor G-CSF, displayed a bimodal distribution accompanying viremia.\n\n While this is the first manuscript to document bimodal distributions of viremia in ZIKV infection, this has been documented in other viral infections, with a primary viremia peak during mild systemic disease and a secondary peak associated with distribution of the virus to organs and tissues.\n\n\nMAIN CONCLUSIONS\nBiomarker network analysis demonstrated distinct dynamics in concurrence with the bimodal viremia profiles at different time points during ZIKV infection.\n\n Such a robust cytokine and chemokine response has been associated with blood-brain barrier permeability and neuroinvasiveness in other flaviviral infections.\n\n High-dimensional data analysis further identified CXCL10, a chemokine involved in foetal neuron apoptosis and Guillain-Barré syndrome, as the most promising biomarker of acute ZIKV infection for potential clinical application.\n\n\n","id":"PMC5961926","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Instituto Oswaldo Cruz, Ministério da Saúde","authors":[{"firstname":"Felipe Gomes","surname":"Naveca","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Gemilson Soares","surname":"Pontes","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Aileen Yu-hen","surname":"Chang","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"George Allan Villarouco","surname":"da Silva","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Valdinete Alves","surname":"do Nascimento","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Dana Cristina da Silva","surname":"Monteiro","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Marineide Souza","surname":"da Silva","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Lígia Fernandes","surname":"Abdalla","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"João Hugo Abdalla","surname":"Santos","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Tatiana Amaral Pires","surname":"de Almeida","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Matilde del Carmen Contreras","surname":"Mejía","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Tirza Gabrielle Ramos","surname":"de Mesquita","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Helia Valeria de Souza","surname":"Encarnação","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Matheus de Souza","surname":"Gomes","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Laurence Rodrigues","surname":"Amaral","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ana Carolina","surname":"Campi-Azevedo","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jordana Graziela","surname":"Coelho-dos-Reis","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Lis Ribeiro do Vale","surname":"Antonelli","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Andréa","surname":"Teixeira-Carvalho","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Olindo Assis","surname":"Martins-Filho","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Rajendranath","surname":"Ramasawmy","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.1093/cid/ciw878","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Zika Virus Infects Human Fetal Brain Microglia and Induces Inflammation","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1038/s41564-017-0016-3","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Asian Zika virus strains target CD14<sup>+</sup> blood monocytes and induce M2-skewed immunosuppression during pregnancy","abstract":"id='P1'>Blood CD14+ monocytes are the frontline immunomodulators categorized into classical, intermediate or non-classical subsets, subsequently differentiating into M1 pro- or M2 anti-inflammatory macrophages upon stimulation.\n While Zika virus (ZIKV) rapidly establishes viremia, the target cells and immune responses, particularly during pregnancy, remain elusive.\n Furthermore, it is unknown whether African- and Asian-lineage ZIKV have different phenotypic impacts on host immune responses.\n Using human blood infection, we identified CD14+ monocytes as the primary target for African- or Asian-lineage ZIKV infection.\n When immunoprofiles of human blood infected with ZIKV were compared, a classical/intermediate monocyte-mediated M1-skewed inflammation by African-lineage ZIKV infection was observed, in contrast to a non-classical monocyte-mediated M2-skewed immunosuppression by Asian-lineage ZIKV infection.\n Importantly, infection of pregnant women’s blood revealed enhanced susceptibility to ZIKV infection.\n Specifically, Asian-lineage ZIKV infection of pregnant women’s blood led to an exacerbated M2-skewed immunosuppression of non-classical monocytes in conjunction with global suppression of type I interferon-signaling pathway and an aberrant expression of host genes associated with pregnancy complications.\n 30 ZIKV+ sera from symptomatic pregnant patients also showed elevated levels of M2-skewed immunosuppressive cytokines and pregnancy complication-associated fibronectin-1. This study demonstrates the differential immunomodulatory responses of blood monocytes, particularly during pregnancy, upon infection with different lineages of ZIKV.\n","id":"PMC5678934","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"World Health Organization","authors":[{"firstname":"Suan-Sin","surname":"Foo","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Weiqiang","surname":"Chen","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Yen","surname":"Chan","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"James W.","surname":"Bowman","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Lin-Chun","surname":"Chang","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Younho","surname":"Choi","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ji Seung","surname":"Yoo","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jianning","surname":"Ge","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Genhong","surname":"Cheng","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Alexandre","surname":"Bonnin","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Karin","surname":"Nielsen-Saines","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Patrícia","surname":"Brasil","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jae U.","surname":"Jung","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.3390/v13010080","date":"2020-12-31","title":"Pregnant Women Infected with Zika Virus Show Higher Viral Load and Immunoregulatory Cytokines Profile with CXCL10 Increase","abstract":"Background: Zika virus (ZIKV) infection during pregnancy usually shows only mild symptoms and is frequently subclinical.\n However, it can be vertically transmitted to the fetus, causing microcephaly and other congenital defects.\n During pregnancy, the immune environment modifications can alter the response to viruses in general and ZIKV in particular.\n Objective: To describe the role of pregnancy in the systemic pro- and anti-inflammatory response during symptomatic ZIKV infection.\n Materials and Methods: A multiplex assay was used to measure 25 cytokines, chemokines, and receptors in 110 serum samples from pregnant and nonpregnant women with and without ZIKV infection with and without symptoms.\n Samples were collected through an epidemiological surveillance system.\n Results: Samples from pregnant women with ZIKV infection showed a higher viral load but had similar profiles of inflammatory markers as compared with nonpregnant infected women, except for CXCL10 that was higher in infected pregnant women.\n Notably, the presence of ZIKV in pregnancy favored a regulatory profile by significantly increasing anti-inflammatory cytokines such as interleukin (IL)-10, receptors IL-1RA, and IL-2R, but only those pro-inflammatory cytokines such as IL-6, interferon (IFN)-?, IFN-? and IL-17 that are essential for the antiviral response.\n Interestingly, there were no differences between symptomatic and weakly symptomatic ZIKV-infected groups.\n Conclusion: Our results revealed a systemic anti-inflammatory cytokine and chemokine profile that could participate in the control of the virus.\n The anti-inflammatory response in pregnant women infected with ZIKA was characterized by high CXCL10, a cytokine that has been correlated with congenital malformations.\n","id":"PMC7827657","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"MDPI","authors":[{"firstname":"Elizabeth","surname":"Camacho-Zavala","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Clara","surname":"Santacruz-Tinoco","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Clara","surname":"Santacruz-Tinoco","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Esteban","surname":"Muñoz","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Rommel","surname":"Chacón-Salinas","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Rommel","surname":"Chacón-Salinas","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ma Isabel","surname":"Salazar-Sanchez","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Ma Isabel","surname":"Salazar-Sanchez","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Concepción","surname":"Grajales","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Concepción","surname":"Grajales","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Joaquin","surname":"González-Ibarra","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Victor Hugo","surname":"Borja-Aburto","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Victor Hugo","surname":"Borja-Aburto","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Thomas","surname":"Jaenisch","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Cesar R.","surname":"Gonzalez-Bonilla","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Remi N.","surname":"Charrel","email":"NULL","contributions":"3"},{"firstname":"Remi N.","surname":"Charrel","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Remi N.","surname":"Charrel","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.3389/fimmu.2021.610456","date":"2021-01-22","title":"Differential Longevity of Memory CD4 and CD8 T Cells in a Cohort of the Mothers With a History of ZIKV Infection and Their Children","abstract":"Background: Zika virus (ZIKV) infection causes for mild and self-limiting disease in healthy adults.\n In newborns, it can occasionally lead to a spectrum of malformations, the congenital Zika syndrome (CZS).\n Thus, little is known if mothers and babies with a history of ZIKV infection were able to develop long-lasting T-cell immunity.\n To these issues, we measure the prevalence of ZIKV T-cell immunity in a cohort of mothers infected to the ZIKV during pregnancy in the 2016–2017 Zika outbreak, who gave birth to infants affected by neurological complications or asymptomatic ones.\n","id":"PMC7928292","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Frontiers Media S.A.","authors":[{"firstname":"Jessica","surname":"Badolato-Corrêa","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Fabiana Rabe","surname":"Carvalho","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Iury Amancio","surname":"Paiva","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Débora","surname":"Familiar-Macedo","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Helver Gonçalves","surname":"Dias","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Alex","surname":"Pauvolid-Corrêa","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Caroline","surname":"Fernandes-Santos","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Monique da Rocha Queiroz","surname":"Lima","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Mariana","surname":"Gandini","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Andréa Alice","surname":"Silva","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Silvia Maria","surname":"Baeta Cavalcanti","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Solange Artimos","surname":"de Oliveira","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Renata Artimos","surname":"de Oliveira Vianna","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Elzinandes Leal","surname":"de Azeredo","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Claudete Aparecida Araújo","surname":"Cardoso","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Alba","surname":"Grifoni","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Alessandro","surname":"Sette","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Daniela","surname":"Weiskopf","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Luzia Maria","surname":"de-Oliveira-Pinto","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.3201/eid2211.160956","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Early Growth and Neurologic Outcomes of Infants with Probable Congenital Zika Virus Syndrome","abstract":"We report the early growth and neurologic findings of 48 infants in Brazil diagnosed with probable congenital Zika virus syndrome and followed to age 1–8 months.\n Most of these infants had microcephaly (86.7%) and craniofacial disproportion (95.8%).\n The clinical pattern included poor head growth with increasingly negative z-scores, pyramidal/extrapyramidal symptoms, and epilepsy.\n","id":"PMC5088045","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Centers for Disease Control and Prevention","authors":[{"firstname":"Antonio Augusto","surname":"Moura da Silva","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jucelia Sousa Santos","surname":"Ganz","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Patricia da Silva","surname":"Sousa","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Maria Juliana Rodvalho","surname":"Doriqui","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Marizelia Rodrigues Costa","surname":"Ribeiro","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Maria dos Remédios Freitas Carvalho","surname":"Branco","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Rejane Christine de Sousa","surname":"Queiroz","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Maria de Jesus Torres","surname":"Pacheco","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Flavia Regina","surname":"Vieira da Costa","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Francelena de Sousa","surname":"Silva","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Vanda Maria Ferreira","surname":"Simões","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Marcos Antonio Barbosa","surname":"Pacheco","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Fernando","surname":"Lamy-Filho","email":"NULL","contributions":"3"},{"firstname":"Zeni Carvalho","surname":"Lamy","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Maria Teresa Seabra","surname":"Soares de Britto e Alves","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.3791/52065","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Viral Concentration Determination through Plaque Assays: Using Traditional and Novel Overlay Systems","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.3390/v15010220","date":"2023-01-11","title":"Maternal Immune Response to ZIKV Triggers High-Inflammatory Profile in Congenital Zika Syndrome","abstract":"The immunological mechanisms involved in the development of congenital Zika syndrome (CZS) have yet to be fully clarified.\n This study aims to assess the immuno-inflammatory profile of mothers and their children who have been diagnosed with CZS.\n Blood samples, which were confirmed clinically using the plaque reduction neutralization test (PRNT), were collected from children with CZS and their mothers (CZS+ group).\n Samples were also collected from children who did not develop CZS and had a negative PRNT result and from their mothers (CZS- group).\n The data demonstrated a correlation between the leukocyte profile of CZS+ children and their mothers, more evident in monocytes.\n Monocytes from mothers of CZS+ children showed low expression of HLA and elevated hydrogen peroxide production.\n CZS+ children presented standard HLA expression and a higher hydrogen peroxide concentration than CZS- children.\n Monocyte superoxide dismutase activity remained functional.\n Moreover, when assessing the monocyte polarization, it was observed that there was no difference in nitrite concentrations; however, there was a decrease in arginase activity in CZS+ children.\n These data suggest that ZIKV infection induces a maternal immuno-inflammatory background related to the child’s inflammatory response after birth, possibly affecting the development and progression of congenital Zika syndrome.\n","id":"PMC9866085","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"MDPI","authors":[{"firstname":"Eder M. S.","surname":"Fialho","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Emanoel M.","surname":"Veras","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Emanoel M.","surname":"Veras","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Caroline M.","surname":"de Jesus","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Caroline M.","surname":"de Jesus","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ricardo","surname":"Khouri","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Patrícia S.","surname":"Sousa","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Marizelia R. C.","surname":"Ribeiro","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Luciana C.","surname":"Costa","email":"NULL","contributions":"3"},{"firstname":"Líllian N.","surname":"Gomes","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Flávia R. F.","surname":"Nascimento","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Antônio A. M.","surname":"Silva","email":"NULL","contributions":"3"},{"firstname":"Antônio A. M.","surname":"Silva","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Paulo V.","surname":"Soeiro-Pereira","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Pedro V.","surname":"Vasconcelos","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Pedro V.","surname":"Vasconcelos","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1001/jamaneurol.2016.3720","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Congenital Zika Virus Infection: Beyond Neonatal Microcephaly","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.3390/ijerph15091990","date":"2018-08-14","title":"Growth and Development of Children with Microcephaly Associated with Congenital Zika Virus Syndrome in Brazil","abstract":"The outbreak of Zika virus in Latin America in the period 2015–2016 has caused a sudden increase in the number of severe manifestations and reports of congenital changes in newborns in Brazil.\n This is the first study that evaluated and compared the growth and cognitive and motor development of children with microcephaly due to Congenital Zika Virus Syndrome (CZS) in relation to typical children.\n It was an observational, analytical, cross-sectional study with 8 children with CZS and 16 typical children, with a mean age of 20.5 months (±2.1), in a region of northeastern Brazil.\n Considering the mean, children with CZS presented extremely low performance in the motor domain and in the cognitive development domain, whereas typical children presented average performance in the cognitive and motor development domains.\n Children with CZS presented a mean growth rate (head circumference and weight) lower than typical children.\n Therefore, children with CZS are at risk for growth retardation and development compared to typical children.\n","id":"PMC6164092","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"MDPI","authors":[{"firstname":"Thaís Lorena Barbosa","surname":"de França","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Wilton Rodrigues","surname":"Medeiros","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Nilba Lima","surname":"de Souza","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Egmar","surname":"Longo","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Egmar","surname":"Longo","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Silvana Alves","surname":"Pereira","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Thamyris Barbosa de Oliveira","surname":"França","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Thamyris Barbosa de Oliveira","surname":"França","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Klayton Galante","surname":"Sousa","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.1016/S0140-6736(16)00651-6","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Association between Zika Virus and Microcephaly in French Polynesia, 2013-2015: A Retrospective Study","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.15585/mmwr.mm6547e2","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Description of 13 Infants Born during October 2015-January 2016 with Congenital Zika Virus Infection without Microcephaly at Birth:Brazil","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.15585/mmwr.mm6731e1","date":"1970-01-01","title":"<italic>Vital Signs: </italic>Zika-Associated Birth Defects and Neurodevelopmental Abnormalities Possibly Associated with Congenital Zika Virus Infection — U.S. Territories and Freely Associated States, 2018","abstract":"Introduction\nZika virus infection during pregnancy causes serious birth defects and might be associated with neurodevelopmental abnormalities in children.\n\n Early identification of and intervention for neurodevelopmental problems can improve cognitive, social, and behavioral functioning.\n\n\nMethods\nPregnancies with laboratory evidence of confirmed or possible Zika virus infection and infants resulting from these pregnancies are included in the U.\n\nS.\n\n Zika Pregnancy and Infant Registry (USZPIR) and followed through active surveillance methods.\n\n This report includes data on children aged ?1 year born in U.\n\nS.\n\n territories and freely associated states.\n\n Receipt of reported follow-up care was assessed, and data were reviewed to identify Zika-associated birth defects and neurodevelopmental abnormalities possibly associated with congenital Zika virus infection.\n\n\nResults\nAmong 1,450 children of mothers with laboratory evidence of confirmed or possible Zika virus infection during pregnancy and with reported follow-up care, 76% had developmental screening or evaluation, 60% had postnatal neuroimaging, 48% had automated auditory brainstem response-based hearing screen or evaluation, and 36% had an ophthalmologic evaluation.\n\n Among evaluated children, 6% had at least one Zika-associated birth defect identified, 9% had at least one neurodevelopmental abnormality possibly associated with congenital Zika virus infection identified, and 1% had both.\n\n\nConclusion\nOne in seven evaluated children had a Zika-associated birth defect, a neurodevelopmental abnormality possibly associated with congenital Zika virus infection, or both reported to the USZPIR.\n\n Given that most children did not have evidence of all recommended evaluations, additional anomalies might not have been identified.\n\n Careful monitoring and evaluation of children born to mothers with evidence of Zika virus infection during pregnancy is essential for ensuring early detection of possible disabilities and early referral to intervention services.\n\n\n","id":"PMC6089332","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Centers for Disease Control and Prevention","authors":[{"firstname":"Marion E.","surname":"Rice","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Romeo R.","surname":"Galang","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Nicole M.","surname":"Roth","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Sascha R.","surname":"Ellington","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Cynthia A.","surname":"Moore","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Miguel","surname":"Valencia-Prado","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Esther M.","surname":"Ellis","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Aifili John","surname":"Tufa","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Livinson A.","surname":"Taulung","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Julia M.","surname":"Alfred","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Janice","surname":"Pérez-Padilla","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Camille A.","surname":"Delgado-López","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Sherif R.","surname":"Zaki","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Sarah","surname":"Reagan-Steiner","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Julu","surname":"Bhatnagar","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"John F.","surname":"Nahabedian","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Megan R.","surname":"Reynolds","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Marshalyn","surname":"Yeargin-Allsopp","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Laura J.","surname":"Viens","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Samantha M.","surname":"Olson","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Abbey M.","surname":"Jones","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Madelyn A.","surname":"Baez-Santiago","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Philip","surname":"Oppong-Twene","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Kelley","surname":"VanMaldeghem","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Elizabeth L.","surname":"Simon","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jazmyn T.","surname":"Moore","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Kara D.","surname":"Polen","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Braeanna","surname":"Hillman","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ruta","surname":"Ropeti","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Leishla","surname":"Nieves-Ferrer","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Mariam","surname":"Marcano-Huertas","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Carolee A.","surname":"Masao","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Edlen J.","surname":"Anzures","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ransen L.","surname":"Hansen","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Stephany I.","surname":"Pérez-Gonzalez","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Carla P.","surname":"Espinet-Crespo","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Mildred","surname":"Luciano-Román","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Carrie K.","surname":"Shapiro-Mendoza","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Suzanne M.","surname":"Gilboa","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Margaret A.","surname":"Honein","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.3390/v12111244","date":"2020-10-30","title":"Plaque Reduction Neutralization Test (PRNT) in the Congenital Zika Syndrome: Positivity and Associations with Laboratory, Clinical, and Imaging Characteristics","abstract":"The short duration of viremia, low blood viral load, inaccessibility to timely specific diagnostic tests, and cross-reactions with other flaviviruses have hindered laboratory confirmation of Congenital Zika Syndrome (CZS).\n This study analyzes the positivity of the plaque reduction neutralization test (PRNT) in children with clinical or imaging characteristics of CZS and its association with laboratory, clinical, and imaging characteristics.\n The 94 clinical cases of CZS submitted to the ZIKV PRNT90 test were followed from 2016 to 2018. The mean age of children at PRNT90 collection was 22 ± 6 months Standard Deviation.\n The ZIKV PRNT90 was positive (titer ? 10) in 40 (42.5%) children.\n ZIKV PRNT90 positivity was associated with severe microcephaly in newborns (p = 0.016), lower head circumference z-score at birth (p = 0.043) and 24 months of age (p = 0.031), and severe reduction of the cerebral parenchyma volume (p = 0.021), expressing greater disease severity.\n Negative PRNT90 in children with characteristic signs of CZS may be due to false-negative results, indicating that the diagnosis of CZS should be primarily syndromic.\n ","id":"PMC7692785","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"MDPI","authors":[{"firstname":"Marizélia R. C.","surname":"Ribeiro","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ricardo","surname":"Khouri","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Patrícia S.","surname":"Sousa","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Maria R. F. C.","surname":"Branco","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Rosângela F. L.","surname":"Batista","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Elaine P. F.","surname":"Costa","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Maria T. S. S. B.","surname":"Alves","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Gláucio A.","surname":"Amaral","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Gláucio A.","surname":"Amaral","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Marcella C. R.","surname":"Borges","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Marcella C. R.","surname":"Borges","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Eliana H. M.","surname":"Takahasi","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Líllian N.","surname":"Gomes","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ana K. T.","surname":"Mendes","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Tamires B.","surname":"Cavalcante","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Luciana C.","surname":"Costa","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Luciana C.","surname":"Costa","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Alvina C.","surname":"Félix","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Alvina C.","surname":"Félix","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Nathalia C. S.","surname":"Souza","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Antônio A. M.","surname":"Silva","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1590/s1678-9946202062056","date":"2020-07-27","title":"Congenital Zika syndrome: association between the gestational trimester of maternal infection, severity of brain computed tomography findings and microcephaly at birth","abstract":"This study analyzed possible associations between the trimester of maternal Zika virus infection (ZIKV) in pregnancy, severity of brain computed tomography (CT) findings and the presence of microcephaly at birth in children with Congenital Zika Syndrome (CZS).\n It was an analytical study in a cohort of children with CZS.\n Symptoms of maternal infection were dichotomized into the 1st trimester of pregnancy and other trimesters.\n Head circumference (HC) at birth was used to calculate the z-score.\n Mild microcephaly was defined as HC between 2 and ?3 standard deviations (SD) below the mean for each gestational age and sex, and severe microcephaly when HC &lt;3 SD below average.\n Brain CT images were evaluated by two radiologists and classified, according to the severity, into mild, moderate and severe.\n Fisher’s exact, Mann-Whitney and Kruskal-Wallis tests were used to verify the associations between variables.\n In 108 children, maternal infection in the 1st trimester of pregnancy was associated with more severe brain CT abnormalities (p=0.038), greater severity of microcephaly at birth (p=0.013) and lower HC z-scores at birth (p=0.021).\n The severity of brain CT lesions was also associated with lower HC z-scores at birth (p&lt;0.001).\n Maternal ZIKV infection during the first trimester of pregnancy proved to be an important risk factor for a more severe spectrum of CZS, as it is associated with more severe brain CT abnormalities and, consequently, with lower HC z-scores at birth.\n","id":"PMC7447234","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Instituto de Medicina Tropical","authors":[{"firstname":"Ana Karolina Torres","surname":"Mendes","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Marizélia Rodrigues Costa","surname":"Ribeiro","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Marizélia Rodrigues Costa","surname":"Ribeiro","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Fernando","surname":"Lamy-Filho","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Fernando","surname":"Lamy-Filho","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Gláucio Andrade","surname":"Amaral","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Gláucio Andrade","surname":"Amaral","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Marcella Costa Ribeiro","surname":"Borges","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Marcella Costa Ribeiro","surname":"Borges","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Luciana Cavalcante","surname":"Costa","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Luciana Cavalcante","surname":"Costa","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Tamires Barradas","surname":"Cavalcante","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Tamires Barradas","surname":"Cavalcante","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Rosângela Fernandes Lucena","surname":"Batista","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Rosângela Fernandes Lucena","surname":"Batista","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Patrícia da Silva","surname":"Sousa","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Patrícia da Silva","surname":"Sousa","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Antônio Augusto Moura","surname":"da Silva","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Antônio Augusto Moura","surname":"da Silva","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1093/ofid/ofy073","date":"2018-04-06","title":"Asymptomatic Prenatal Zika Virus Infection and Congenital Zika Syndrome","abstract":"To investigate to what extent asymptomatic vs symptomatic prenatal Zika virus infections contribute to birth defects, we identified 3 prospective and 8 retrospective studies.\n The ratio varied greatly in the retrospective studies, most likely due to recruitment and recall bias.\n The prospective studies revealed a ratio of 1:1 for asymptomatic vs symptomatic maternal Zika infections resulting in adverse fetal outcomes.\n","id":"PMC5925427","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Oxford University Press","authors":[{"firstname":"Enny S","surname":"Paixao","email":"enny.cruz@lshtm.ac.uk","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Wei-Yee","surname":"Leong","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Wei-Yee","surname":"Leong","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Laura C","surname":"Rodrigues","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Annelies","surname":"Wilder-Smith","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.1001/jamaneurol.2018.3553","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Association of Severe Hydrocephalus With Congenital Zika Syndrome","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.3390/cells8080820","date":"2019-08-02","title":"Protective to a T: The Role of T Cells during Zika Virus Infection","abstract":"CD4 and CD8 T cells are an important part of the host’s capacity to defend itself against viral infections.\n During flavivirus infections, T cells have been implicated in both protective and pathogenic responses.\n Given the recent emergence of Zika virus (ZIKV) as a prominent global health threat, the question remains as to how T cells contribute to anti-ZIKV immunity.\n Furthermore, high homology between ZIKV and other, co-circulating flaviviruses opens the possibility of positive or negative effects of cross-reactivity due to pre-existing immunity.\n In this review, we will discuss the CD4 and CD8 T cell responses to ZIKV, and the lessons we have learned from both mouse and human infections.\n In addition, we will consider the possibility of whether T cells, in the context of flavivirus-naïve and flavivirus-immune subjects, play a role in promoting ZIKV pathogenesis during infection.\n","id":"PMC6721718","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"MDPI","authors":[{"firstname":"Ryan D.","surname":"Pardy","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Martin J.","surname":"Richer","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.1002/hep4.1351","date":"2019-03-05","title":"Maternal Immunity Influences Vertical Transmission of Hepatitis B to Newborns","abstract":"Vertical transmission of hepatitis B virus (HBV) from the mother to the newborn often results in viral persistence.\n To understand mechanisms of maternofetal HBV transmission, we studied maternal immunity and peripheral blood mononuclear cell (PBMC) transcriptome in mothers and newborns.\n We included 50 mothers and babies who were hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg) positive: 22 HBV transmitting mothers (group [Gr.\n] I) and 28 HBV nontransmitting mothers (Gr.\n II) to newborns and 10 healthy mother–baby pairs (Gr.\n III).\n PBMCs were analyzed for HBV?specific dendritic cells (DCs), T cells, T follicular helper (TFh) cells, B cells, functional immune responses, and cytokine levels as well as transcriptome signatures to identify immune gene expression correlates for protective immunity.\n Group II mothers had lower HBsAg levels (3.82 × 103 versus 1.493 × 104; P &lt; 0.0001) with greater HBV?specific responses of DCs, T cells, TFh cells, and B cells than Gr.\n I mothers.\n Frequencies of TFh cells were lower in Gr.\n I mothers, with reduced interleukin?21 (IL?21) levels, and these inversely correlated with HBV DNA levels.\n Cut?off levels of 9.5% and 8.93% from the receiver operating curve predicted the involvement of TFh cells and B cells in HBV transmission.\n Transcriptome signatures revealed that maternal gene imprints were reflected in the newborns.\n Genes related to DCs, TFh cells, and B cells were increased in Gr.\n II, and Gr.\n II newborns showed a boost in cellular and humoral responses after vaccination.\n Conclusion: In mothers infected with HBV, low serum IL?21 levels and decreased TFh?cell and plasma B?cell frequencies are associated with vertical transmission of HBV to newborns.\n These features are indicative of low protective maternal immunity.\n","id":"PMC6546022","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"John Wiley and Sons Inc.","authors":[{"firstname":"Ashish Kumar","surname":"Vyas","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Pooja","surname":"Negi","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Sharda","surname":"Patra","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jaswinder Singh","surname":"Maras","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Gayatri","surname":"Ramakrishna","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Shiv Kumar","surname":"Sarin","email":"sksarin@ilbs.in","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Nirupma","surname":"Trehanpati","email":"trehanpati@ilbs.in","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.1038/nature18296","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The Brazilian Zika virus strain causes birth defects in experimental models","abstract":"id='P2'>Zika virus (ZIKV) is an arbovirus belonging to the genus Flavivirus (Family Flaviviridae) and was first described in 1947 in Uganda following blood analyses of sentinel Rhesus monkeys1.\n Until the 20th century, the African and Asian lineages of the virus did not cause meaningful infections in humans.\n However, in 2007, vectored by Aedes aegypti mosquitoes, ZIKV caused the first noteworthy epidemic on the island of Yap in Micronesia2.\n Patients experienced fever, skin rash, arthralgia and conjunctivitis2.\n From 2013 to 2015, the Asian lineage of the virus caused further massive outbreaks in New Caledonia and French Polynesia.\n In 2013, ZIKV reached Brazil, later spreading to other countries in South and Central America3.\n In Brazil, the virus has been linked to congenital malformations, including microcephaly and other severe neurological diseases, such as Guillain-Barré syndrome4,5.\n Despite clinical evidence, direct experimental proof showing that the Brazilian ZIKV (ZIKVBR) strain causes birth defects remains missing6.\n Here we demonstrate that the ZIKVBR infects fetuses, causing intra-uterine growth restriction (IUGR), including signs of microcephaly in mice.\n Moreover, the virus infects human cortical progenitor cells, leading to an increase in cell death.\n Finally, we observed that the infection of human brain organoids resulted in a reduction of proliferative zones and disrupted cortical layers.\n These results indicate that ZIKVBR crosses the placenta and causes microcephaly by targeting cortical progenitor cells, inducing cell death by apoptosis and autophagy, impairing neurodevelopment.\n Our data reinforce the growing body of evidence linking the ZIKVBR outbreak to the alarming number of cases of congenital brain malformations.\n Our model can be used to determine the efficiency of therapeutic approaches to counteracting the harmful impact of ZIKVBR in human neurodevelopment.\n","id":"PMC4902174","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"NULL","authors":[{"firstname":"Fernanda R.","surname":"Cugola","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Isabella R.","surname":"Fernandes","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Fabiele B.","surname":"Russo","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Beatriz C.","surname":"Freitas","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"João L.M.","surname":"Dias","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Katia P.","surname":"Guimarães","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Cecília","surname":"Benazzato","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Nathalia","surname":"Almeida","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Graciela C.","surname":"Pignatari","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Sarah","surname":"Romero","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Carolina M.","surname":"Polonio","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Isabela","surname":"Cunha","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Carla L.","surname":"Freitas","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Wesley N.","surname":"Brandão","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Cristiano","surname":"Rossato","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"David G.","surname":"Andrade","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Daniele de P.","surname":"Faria","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Alexandre T.","surname":"Garcez","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Carlos A..","surname":"Buchpigel","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Carla T.","surname":"Braconi","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Erica","surname":"Mendes","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Amadou A.","surname":"Sall","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Paolo M. de A.","surname":"Zanotto","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jean Pierre S.","surname":"Peron","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Alysson R.","surname":"Muotri","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Patricia C. B.","surname":"Beltrão-Braga","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.3389/fimmu.2021.764746","date":"2021-11-08","title":"Congenital Zika Syndrome Is Associated With Interferon Alfa Receptor 1","abstract":"Host factors that influence Congenital Zika Syndrome (CZS) outcome remain elusive.\n Interferons have been reported as the main antiviral factor in Zika and other flavivirus infections.\n Here, we accessed samples from 153 pregnant women (77 without and 76 with CZS) and 143 newborns (77 without and 66 with CZS) exposed to ZIKV conducted a case-control study to verify whether interferon alfa receptor 1 (IFNAR1) and interferon lambda 2 and 4 (IFNL2/4) single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) contribute to CZS outcome, and characterized placenta gene expression profile at term.\n Newborns carrying CG/CC genotypes of rs2257167 in IFNAR1 presented higher risk of developing CZS (OR=3.41; IC=1.35-8.60; Pcorrected=0.032).\n No association between IFNL SNPs and CZS was observed.\n Placenta from CZS cases displayed lower levels of IFNL2 and ISG15 along with higher IFIT5. The rs2257167 CG/CC placentas also demonstrated high levels of IFIT5 and inflammation-related genes.\n We found CZS to be related with exacerbated type I IFN and insufficient type III IFN in placenta at term, forming an unbalanced response modulated by the IFNAR1 rs2257167 genotype.\n Despite of the low sample size se findings shed light on the host-pathogen interaction focusing on the genetically regulated type I/type III IFN axis that could lead to better management of Zika and other TORCH (Toxoplasma, Others, Rubella, Cytomegalovirus, Herpes) congenital infections.\n","id":"PMC8657619","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Frontiers Media S.A.","authors":[{"firstname":"Tamiris","surname":"Azamor","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Daniela Prado","surname":"Cunha","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Andréa Marques Vieira","surname":"da Silva","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ohanna Cavalcanti de Lima","surname":"Bezerra","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Marcelo","surname":"Ribeiro-Alves","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Thyago Leal","surname":"Calvo","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Fernanda de Souza Gomes","surname":"Kehdy","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Fernanda Saloum de Neves","surname":"Manta","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Thiago Gomes de Toledo","surname":"Pinto","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Laís Pereira","surname":"Ferreira","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Elyzabeth Avvad","surname":"Portari","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Letícia da Cunha","surname":"Guida","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Leonardo","surname":"Gomes","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Maria Elisabeth Lopes","surname":"Moreira","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Elizeu Fagundes","surname":"de Carvalho","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Cynthia Chester","surname":"Cardoso","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Marcelo","surname":"Muller","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ana Paula Dinis","surname":"Ano Bom","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Patrícia Cristina da Costa","surname":"Neves","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Zilton","surname":"Vasconcelos","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Milton Ozório","surname":"Moraes","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.3389/fimmu.2020.572567","date":"2020-08-31","title":"Innate Immune Responses to Acute Viral Infection During Pregnancy","abstract":"Immunological adaptations in pregnancy allow maternal tolerance of the semi-allogeneic fetus but also increase maternal susceptibility to infection.\n At implantation, the endometrial stroma, glands, arteries and immune cells undergo anatomical and functional transformation to create the decidua, the specialized secretory endometrium of pregnancy.\n The maternal decidua and the invading fetal trophoblast constitute a dynamic junction that facilitates a complex immunological dialogue between the two.\n The decidual and peripheral immune systems together assume a pivotal role in regulating the critical balance between tolerance and defense against infection.\n Throughout pregnancy, this equilibrium is repeatedly subjected to microbial challenge.\n Acute viral infection in pregnancy is associated with a wide spectrum of adverse consequences for both mother and fetus.\n Vertical transmission from mother to fetus can cause developmental anomalies, growth restriction, preterm birth and stillbirth, while the mother is predisposed to heightened morbidity and maternal death.\n A rapid, effective response to invasive pathogens is therefore essential in order to avoid overwhelming maternal infection and consequent fetal compromise.\n This sentinel response is mediated by the innate immune system: a heritable, highly evolutionarily conserved system comprising physical barriers, antimicrobial peptides (AMP) and a variety of immune cells—principally neutrophils, macrophages, dendritic cells, and natural killer cells—which express pattern-receptors that detect invariant molecular signatures unique to pathogenic micro-organisms.\n Recognition of these signatures during acute infection triggers signaling cascades that enhance antimicrobial properties such as phagocytosis, secretion of pro-inflammatory cytokines and activation of the complement system.\n As well as coordinating the initial immune response, macrophages and dendritic cells present microbial antigens to lymphocytes, initiating and influencing the development of specific, long-lasting adaptive immunity.\n Despite extensive progress in unraveling the immunological adaptations of pregnancy, pregnant women remain particularly susceptible to certain acute viral infections and continue to experience mortality rates equivalent to those observed in pandemics several decades ago.\n Here, we focus specifically on the pregnancy-induced vulnerabilities in innate immunity that contribute to the disproportionately high maternal mortality observed in the following acute viral infections: Lassa fever, Ebola virus disease (EVD), dengue fever, hepatitis E, influenza, and novel coronavirus infections.\n","id":"PMC7556209","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Frontiers Media S.A.","authors":[{"firstname":"Emily F.","surname":"Cornish","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Iva","surname":"Filipovic","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Fredrika","surname":"Åsenius","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"David J.","surname":"Williams","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Thomas","surname":"McDonnell","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.1016/j.immuni.2018.07.017","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Role of Interferons and Cytokines in Pregnancy and Fetal Development","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1126/science.aad0314","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The Maternal Interleukin-17a Pathway in Mice Promotes Autism-like Phenotypes in Offspring","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1042/CS20110340","date":"1970-01-01","title":"IL-6/IL-6 Receptor System and Its Role in Physiological and Pathological Conditions","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1523/JNEUROSCI.2178-07.2007","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Maternal Immune Activation Alters Fetal Brain Development through Interleukin-6","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1186/1742-2094-9-83","date":"2012-04-30","title":"Maternal immune activation by poly(I:C) induces expression of cytokines IL-1? and IL-13, chemokine MCP-1 and colony stimulating factor VEGF in fetal mouse brain","abstract":"Background\nMaternal viral infection during pregnancy is associated with an increase in the incidence of psychiatric disorders with presumed neurodevelopmental origin, including autism spectrum disorders and schizophrenia.\n\n The enhanced risk for developing mental illness appears to be caused by deleterious effects of innate immune response-associated factors on the development of the central nervous system, which predispose the offspring to pathological behaviors in adolescence and adulthood.\n\n To identify the immune response-associated soluble factors that may affect central nervous system development, we examined the effect of innate immune response activation by polyriboinosinic-polyribocytidylic acid (poly(I:C)), a synthetic analogue of viral double-stranded RNA, on the expression levels of pro- and anti-inflammatory cytokines, chemokines and colony stimulating factors in fetal and postnatal mouse brain 6?h and 24?h after treatment.\n\n\nMethods\nC57BL/6J pregnant mice (gestational day 16) or newborn mice (postnatal day 4) received a single intraperitoneal injection of the synthetic analogue of viral double-stranded RNA poly(I:C) (20?mg/kg).\n\n Thirty-two immune response-associated soluble factors, including pro- and anti-inflammatory cytokines, chemokines and colony stimulating factors, were assayed 6?h and 24?h after poly(I:C) injection using multiplexed bead-based immunoassay (Milliplex Map) and processed in a Luminex 100 IS instrument.\n\n\nResults\nMaternal exposure to poly(I:C) at gestational day 16 induced a significant increase in cytokines interleukin (IL)-1?, IL-7 and IL-13; chemokines monocyte chemoattractant protein 1 (MCP-1), macrophage inflammatory protein (MIP)-1?, interferon gamma-induced protein (IP)-10 and monokine induced by IFN-gamma (MIG); and in the colony stimulating factor vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) in the fetal brain.\n\n IL-1? showed the highest concentration levels in fetal brains and was the only cytokine significantly up-regulated 24?h after maternal poly(I:C) injection, suggesting that IL-1? may have a deleterious impact on central nervous system development.\n\n In contrast, poly(I:C) treatment of postnatal day 4 pups induced a pronounced rise in chemokines and colony stimulating factors in their brains instead of the pro-inflammatory cytokine IL-1?.\n\n\nConclusions\nThis study identified a significant increase in the concentration levels of the cytokines IL-1? and IL-13, the chemokine MCP-1 and the colony stimulating factor VEGF in the developing central nervous system during activation of an innate immune response, suggesting that these factors are mediators of the noxious effects of maternal immune activation on central nervous system development, with potential long-lasting effects on animal behavior.\n\n\n","id":"PMC3413576","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"BioMed Central","authors":[{"firstname":"Géraldine","surname":"Arrode-Brusés","email":"geraldine.arrodebruses@ujf.grenoble.fr","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Juan L","surname":"Brusés","email":"jbruses@kumc.edu","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.2147/JIR.S294238","date":"2021-01-22","title":"Exposure to Maternal Immune Activation Causes Congenital Unfolded Protein Response Defects and Increases the Susceptibility to Postnatal Inflammatory Stimulation in Offspring","abstract":"Background\nA number of childhood diseases have been identified, such as severe infection or autoinflammatory disease, in which immune overreaction against inflammation is a possible underlying mechanism.\n\n Previous reports have demonstrated that fetal cells exposed to maternal immune activation (MIA) induced by polyriboinosinic-polyribocytidylic acid [poly(I:C)] exhibited hypersensitivity to inflammation in vitro.\n\n However, the details of this mechanism remain unclear.\n\n Therefore, this study aimed to reveal the reaction to inflammation in offspring exposed to MIA in the prenatal period, as well as its molecular mechanism, using a viral infection mouse model.\n\n\nMaterials and Methods\nPregnant mice at 12.5, 14.5, and 16.5 days post coitum were injected intraperitoneally with poly(I:C) 20 mg/kg body weight (BW) or saline.\n\n Offspring aged 3–4 weeks received the second injection of 20 mg/kg BW or 4 mg/kg BW poly(I:C) or saline.\n\n Serum and tissues were collected at 2, 24, 48, and 72 h after the postnatal injection.\n\n The cytokine profile, histopathology of organs, and unfolded protein response (UPR) in offspring were examined.\n\n\nResults\nThe serum levels of interleukin (IL)-6, IL-17, and interferon-? were significantly higher in the MIA group, and acute liver necrosis was detected.\n\n Moreover, failure in UPR was observed in the MIA group compared with that in the control group.\n\n\nConclusion\nOverall, MIA exposure in utero caused failure in UPR as well as immune overreaction to the second attack of inflammation in offspring.\n\n Our results suggested that prenatal exposure to MIA might contribute to the congenital inflammatory constitution after birth.\n\n\n","id":"PMC7886242","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Dove","authors":[{"firstname":"Yo","surname":"Shimizu","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Tsuyoshi","surname":"Tsukada","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Tsuyoshi","surname":"Tsukada","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hiromi","surname":"Sakata-Haga","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Hiromi","surname":"Sakata-Haga","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Daisuke","surname":"Sakai","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Daisuke","surname":"Sakai","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hiroki","surname":"Shoji","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Hiroki","surname":"Shoji","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yutaka","surname":"Saikawa","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Yutaka","surname":"Saikawa","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Toshihisa","surname":"Hatta","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.1126/sciimmunol.aba4163","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Pathogen-Induced Tissue-Resident Memory T H 17 (T RM 17) Cells Amplify Autoimmune Kidney Disease","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1126/sciimmunol.abf6692","date":"2021-02-18","title":"Clonal expansion and activation of tissue-resident memory-like T<sub>H</sub>17 cells expressing GM-CSF in the lungs of patients with severe COVID-19","abstract":"Tissue-resident memory-like TH17 cells are clonally expanded in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid of patients with severe COVID-19.","id":"PMC8128299","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"American Association for the Advancement of Science","authors":[{"firstname":"Yu","surname":"Zhao","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Christoph","surname":"Kilian","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Christoph","surname":"Kilian","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jan-Eric","surname":"Turner","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Jan-Eric","surname":"Turner","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Lidia","surname":"Bosurgi","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Kevin","surname":"Roedl","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Patricia","surname":"Bartsch","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Patricia","surname":"Bartsch","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ann-Christin","surname":"Gnirck","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Ann-Christin","surname":"Gnirck","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Filippo","surname":"Cortesi","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Christoph","surname":"Schultheiß","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Christoph","surname":"Schultheiß","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Malte","surname":"Hellmig","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Malte","surname":"Hellmig","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Leon U.B.","surname":"Enk","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Leon U.B.","surname":"Enk","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Fabian","surname":"Hausmann","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Fabian","surname":"Hausmann","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Alina","surname":"Borchers","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Alina","surname":"Borchers","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Milagros N.","surname":"Wong","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Hans-Joachim","surname":"Paust","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Francesco","surname":"Siracusa","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Nicola","surname":"Scheibel","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Marissa","surname":"Herrmann","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Marissa","surname":"Herrmann","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Elisa","surname":"Rosati","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Elisa","surname":"Rosati","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Petra","surname":"Bacher","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Dominik","surname":"Kylies","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Dominik","surname":"Jarczak","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Marc","surname":"Lütgehetmann","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Marc","surname":"Lütgehetmann","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Susanne","surname":"Pfefferle","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Susanne","surname":"Pfefferle","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Stefan","surname":"Steurer","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Stefan","surname":"Steurer","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Julian","surname":"Schulze zur Wiesch","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Victor G.","surname":"Puelles","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Victor G.","surname":"Puelles","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jan-Peter","surname":"Sperhake","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Jan-Peter","surname":"Sperhake","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Marylyn M.","surname":"Addo","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ansgar W.","surname":"Lohse","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Ansgar W.","surname":"Lohse","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Mascha","surname":"Binder","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Samuel","surname":"Huber","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Tobias B.","surname":"Huber","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Tobias B.","surname":"Huber","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Stefan","surname":"Kluge","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Stefan","surname":"Kluge","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Stefan","surname":"Bonn","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ulf","surname":"Panzer","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Ulf","surname":"Panzer","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Nicola","surname":"Gagliani","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Christian F.","surname":"Krebs","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Christian F.","surname":"Krebs","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1016/j.cell.2019.07.032","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Effector TH17 Cells Give Rise to Long-Lived TRM Cells That Are Essential for an Immediate Response against Bacterial Infection","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1002/dneu.22024","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Epidemiologic Studies of Exposure to Prenatal Infection and Risk of Schizophrenia and Autism","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1371/journal.ppat.1008689","date":"2020-10-21","title":"Long-term persistence of infectious Zika virus: Inflammation and behavioral sequela in mice","abstract":"The neurodevelopmental defects associated with ZIKV infections early in pregnancy are well documented, however the potential defects and long-term consequences associated with milder infections in late pregnancy and perinatal period are less well understood.\n To model these, we challenged 1 day old (P1) immunocompetent C57BL/6 mice with ZIKV.\n The animals developed a transient neurological syndrome including unsteady gait, kinetic tremors, severe ataxia and seizures 10–15 days post-infection (dpi) but symptoms subsided after a week, and most animals survived.\n Despite apparent recovery, MRI of convalescent mice show reduced cerebellar volume that correlates with altered coordination and motor function as well as hyperactivity and impulsivity.\n Persistent mRNA levels of pro-inflammatory genes including Cd80, Il-1?, and Ifn-? together with Cd3, Cd8 and perforin (PrfA), suggested persistence of low-grade inflammation.\n Surprisingly, the brain parenchyma of convalescent mice harbor multiple small discrete foci with viral antigen, active apoptotic processes in neurons, and cellular infiltrates, surrounded by activated astrocytes and microglia as late as 1-year post-infection.\n Detection of negative-sense strand viral RNA and isolation of infectious virus derived from these convalescent mice by blinded passage in Vero cells confirmed long-term persistence of replicating ZIKV in CNS of convalescent mice.\n Although the infection appears to persist in defined reservoirs within CNS, the resulting inflammation could increase the risk of neurodegenerative disorders.\n This raises concern regarding possible long-term effects in asymptomatic children exposed to the virus and suggests that long-term neurological and behavioral monitoring as well as anti-viral treatment to clear virus from the CNS may be useful in patients exposed to ZIKV at an early age.\n","id":"PMC7728251","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Public Library of Science","authors":[{"firstname":"Derek D. C.","surname":"Ireland","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Mohanraj","surname":"Manangeeswaran","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Mohanraj","surname":"Manangeeswaran","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Aaron P.","surname":"Lewkowicz","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Aaron P.","surname":"Lewkowicz","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Kaliroi","surname":"Engel","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Kaliroi","surname":"Engel","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Sarah M.","surname":"Clark","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Sarah M.","surname":"Clark","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Adelle","surname":"Laniyan","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Adelle","surname":"Laniyan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jacob","surname":"Sykes","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Jacob","surname":"Sykes","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ha-Na","surname":"Lee","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Ha-Na","surname":"Lee","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ian L.","surname":"McWilliams","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Logan","surname":"Kelley-Baker","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Logan","surname":"Kelley-Baker","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Leonardo H.","surname":"Tonelli","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Leonardo H.","surname":"Tonelli","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Daniela","surname":"Verthelyi","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Helen M.","surname":"Lazear","email":"NULL","contributions":"3"},{"firstname":"Helen M.","surname":"Lazear","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Helen M.","surname":"Lazear","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"NULL","surname":"NULL","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"NULL","surname":"NULL","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"NULL","surname":"NULL","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"NULL","surname":"NULL","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"NULL","surname":"NULL","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"NULL","surname":"NULL","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Epidemiology of Zika virus, 1947-2007","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[{"doi":"10.1016/0035-9203(52)90042-4","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Zika virus: (I) isolations and serological specificity","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.2471/BLT.16.171082","date":"2016-04-18","title":"Zika: the origin and spread of a mosquito-borne virus","abstract":"Objective\nTo describe the temporal and geographical distribution of Zika virus infection and associated neurological disorders, from 1947 to 1 February 2016, when Zika became a Public Health Emergency of International Concern (PHEIC).\n\n\nMethods\nWe did a literature search using the terms “Zika” and “ZIKV” in PubMed, cross-checked the findings for completeness against other published reviews and added formal notifications to WHO submitted under the International Health Regulations.\n\n\nFindings\nFrom the discovery of Zika virus in Uganda in 1947 to the declaration of a PHEIC by the World Health Organization (WHO) on 1 February 2016, a total of 74 countries and territories had reported human Zika virus infections.\n\n The timeline in this paper charts the discovery of the virus (1947), its isolation from mosquitos (1948), the first human infection (1952), the initial spread of infection from Asia to a Pacific island (2007), the first known instance of sexual transmission (2008), reports of Guillain-Barré syndrome (2014) and microcephaly (2015) linked to Zika infections and the first appearance of Zika in the Americas (from 2015).\n\n\nConclusion\nZika virus infection in humans appears to have changed in character as its geographical range has expanded from equatorial Africa and Asia.\n\n The change is from an endemic, mosquito-borne infection causing mild illness to one that can cause large outbreaks linked with neurological sequelae and congenital abnormalities.\n\n\n","id":"PMC5034643","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"World Health Organization","authors":[{"firstname":"Mary Kay","surname":"Kindhauser","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Tomas","surname":"Allen","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Veronika","surname":"Frank","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ravi Shankar","surname":"Santhana","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Christopher","surname":"Dye","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.1056/NEJMra1602113","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Zika virus","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1056/NEJMoa0805715","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Zika virus outbreak on Yap Island, Federated States of Micronesia","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/0035-9203(54)90006-1","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Zika virus: a report on three cases of human infection during an epidemic of jaundice in Nigeria","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/0035-9203(56)90091-8","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Zika virus infection experimentally induced in a human volunteer","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/0035-9203(64)90200-7","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Zika virus infection in man","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/0035-9203(81)90100-0","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Zika virus, a cause of fever in Central Java, Indonesia","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/j.jaut.2016.02.006","date":"2016-02-16","title":"The Zika outbreak of the 21st century","abstract":"The Zika virus outbreak has captivated the attention of the global audience and information has spread rapidly and wildly through the internet and other media channels.\n This virus was first identified in 1947, when it was isolated from a sentinel rhesus monkey placed by British scientists working at the Yellow Fever Research Laboratory located in the Zika forest area of Uganda, hence its name, and is transmitted primarily by the mosquito vector, Aedes aegypti.\n The fact that the rhesus macaque is an Asian species being placed in an African forest brings to mind the possibility of rapid adaptation of the virus from an African to Asian species, an issue that has not been considered.\n Whether such adaptation has played any role in acquiring pathogenicity due to cross species transmission remains to be identified.\n The first human infection was described in Nigeria in 1954, with only scattered reports of about a dozen human infections identified over a 50-year period.\n It was not until 2007 that Zika virus raised its ugly head with infections noted in three-quarters of the population on the tiny island of Yap located between the Philippines and Papua New Guinea in the western Pacific Ocean, followed by a major outbreak in French Polynesia in 2013. The virus remained confined to a narrow equatorial band in Africa and Asia until 2014 when it began to spread eastward, first toward Oceania and then to South America.\n Since then, millions of infected individuals have been identified in Brazil, Colombia, Venezuela, including 25 additional countries in the Americas.\n While the symptoms associated with Zika virus infection are generally mild, consisting of fever, maculopapular rash, arthralgia and conjunctivitis, there have been reports of more severe reactions that are associated with neurological complications.\n In pregnant women, fetal neurological complications include brain damage and microcephaly, while in adults there have been several cases of virus-associated Guillain-Barre syndrome.\n The virus was until recently believed to only be transmitted via mosquitoes.\n But when the Zika virus was isolated from the semen specimens from a patient in Texas, this provided the basis for the recent report of possible sexual transmission of the Zika virus.\n Due to the neurological complications, various vectors for infection as well as the rapid spread throughout the globe, it has prompted the World Health Organization to issue a global health emergency.\n Various governmental organizations have recommended that pregnant women do not travel to countries where the virus is epidemic, and within the countries affected by the virus, recommendations were provided for women of childbearing age to delay pregnancy.\n The overall public health impact of these above findings highlights the need for a rapid but specific diagnostic test for blood banks worldwide to identify those infected and for the counseling of women who are pregnant or contemplating pregnancy.\n As of this date, there are neither commercially licensed diagnostic tests nor a vaccine.\n Because cross-reactivity of the Zika virus with dengue and Chikungunya virus is common, it may pose difficulty in being able to quickly develop such tests and vaccines.\n So far the most effective public health measures include controlling the mosquito populations via insecticides and preventing humans from direct exposure to mosquitoes.\n","id":"PMC7127657","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Elsevier Ltd.","authors":[{"firstname":"Christopher","surname":"Chang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Kristina","surname":"Ortiz","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Aftab","surname":"Ansari","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"M. Eric","surname":"Gershwin","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1056/NEJMp1600297","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Zika virus in the Americas:yet another arbovirus threat","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/S0140-6736(16)00320-2","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Zika virus and microcephaly: why is this situation a PHEIC?","abstract":"","id":"PMC7134564","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Elsevier Ltd.","authors":[{"firstname":"David L","surname":"Heymann","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Abraham","surname":"Hodgson","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Amadou Alpha","surname":"Sall","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"David O","surname":"Freedman","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"J Erin","surname":"Staples","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Fernando","surname":"Althabe","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Kalpana","surname":"Baruah","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ghazala","surname":"Mahmud","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Nyoman","surname":"Kandun","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Pedro F C","surname":"Vasconcelos","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Silvia","surname":"Bino","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"K U","surname":"Menon","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.7554/eLife.08347","date":"2015-06-18","title":"The global distribution of the arbovirus vectors <italic>Aedes aegypti</italic> and <italic>Ae. albopictus</italic>","abstract":"Dengue and chikungunya are increasing global public health concerns due to their rapid geographical spread and increasing disease burden.\n Knowledge of the contemporary distribution of their shared vectors, Aedes aegypti and Aedes albopictus remains incomplete and is complicated by an ongoing range expansion fuelled by increased global trade and travel.\n Mapping the global distribution of these vectors and the geographical determinants of their ranges is essential for public health planning.\n Here we compile the largest contemporary database for both species and pair it with relevant environmental variables predicting their global distribution.\n We show Aedes distributions to be the widest ever recorded; now extensive in all continents, including North America and Europe.\n These maps will help define the spatial limits of current autochthonous transmission of dengue and chikungunya viruses.\n It is only with this kind of rigorous entomological baseline that we can hope to project future health impacts of these viruses.\n","id":"PMC4493616","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"eLife Sciences Publications, Ltd","authors":[{"firstname":"Moritz UG","surname":"Kraemer","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Marianne E","surname":"Sinka","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Kirsten A","surname":"Duda","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Adrian QN","surname":"Mylne","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Freya M","surname":"Shearer","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Christopher M","surname":"Barker","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Chester G","surname":"Moore","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Roberta G","surname":"Carvalho","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Giovanini E","surname":"Coelho","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Wim","surname":"Van Bortel","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Guy","surname":"Hendrickx","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Francis","surname":"Schaffner","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Iqbal RF","surname":"Elyazar","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Hwa-Jen","surname":"Teng","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Oliver J","surname":"Brady","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jane P","surname":"Messina","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"David M","surname":"Pigott","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Thomas W","surname":"Scott","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"David L","surname":"Smith","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"GR William","surname":"Wint","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Nick","surname":"Golding","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Simon I","surname":"Hay","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Mark","surname":"Jit","email":"NULL","contributions":"4"},{"firstname":"Mark","surname":"Jit","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Mark","surname":"Jit","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Mark","surname":"Jit","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.3201/eid1509.090442","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Zika Virus Outside Africa","abstract":"This should be considered an emerging pathogen.\n","id":"PMC2819875","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Centers for Disease Control and Prevention","authors":[{"firstname":"Edward B.","surname":"Hayes","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.1016/j.medmal.2014.04.008","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Current Zika virus epidemiology and recent epidemics","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1128/CMR.00072-15","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Zika virus","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.2105/AJPH.2016.303112","date":"1970-01-01","title":"History, epidemiology, and clinical manifestations of Zika: a systematic review","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.3201/eid2207.151990","date":"1970-01-01","title":"A Literature Review of Zika Virus","abstract":"We summarize what is known about this virus and its global expansion as of mid-February 2016.","id":"PMC4918175","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Centers for Disease Control and Prevention","authors":[{"firstname":"Anna R.","surname":"Plourde","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Evan M.","surname":"Bloch","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Diagnostic de plusieurs cas de fievre jaune en zone d'emergence endemique en Cote-d'Ivoire","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Le virus de la fievre jaune et autres arbovirus dans le Senegal oriental: etude des serums humains","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"A seroepidemiological survey in the Gezira, Sudan, with special reference to arboviruses","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Investigation autour d'un cas mortel de fievre jaune en Cote d'Ivoire en 1999","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Une epidemie de fievre jaune au Senegal en 1965: l'epidemie humaine","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Human arthropod-borne virus infections in Nigeria: serological and virological investigations at Shaki, Oyo State","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1017/S0022172400025997","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Zika virus infections in Nigeria: virological and seroepidemiological investigations in Oyo State","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Arboviroses en Centrafrique: incidence et aspects diagnostiques chez l'homme","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1080/00034983.1975.11686983","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Arthropod-borne viral infections of man in Nigeria, 1964-1970","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/S0035-9203(96)90228-X","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Epidemic dengue 2 in the city of Djibouti 1991-1992","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/S0140-6736(82)91511-2","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Spondweni virus infection in a foreign resident of Upper Volta","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Syndromes exanthematiques et &quot;fievres inexpliquees&quot; en Centrafrique","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Les arbovirus en Haute Volta: enquete serologique","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Immunologie des arbovirus chez des pygmees-babinga de Centrafrique","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Enquete immunologique sur l'incidence des arbovirus chez l'homme en Republique centrafricaine: note preliminaire","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Les anticorps antiamarils chez les enfants en Republique centrafricaine","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Contribution a l'etude des arboviroses en Afrique Centrale: (I) enquete immunologique chez l'homme dans le centre et l'ouest de la Republique centrafricaine","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Arbovirus studies in Angola: serological survey for antibodies to arboviruses","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Antibodies to arboviruses in Northwestern Spain","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Enquete serologique sur la prevalence des arbovirus chez l'homme en milieu forestier et periforestier de la region de la Lobaye, Republique centrafricaine","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1590/S1135-57271998000300009","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Anticuerpos frente a virus West Nile y otros virus transmitidos por artropodos en la poblacion del Delta del Ebro","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"A survey for arboviral antibodies in sera of humans and animals in Lombok, Republic of Indonesia","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Survey for antibodies to arboviruses in the sera of children in Portuguese Guinea","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Les arbovirus en Cote-d'Ivoire: enqete serologique dans la population humaine","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Les arbovirus au Cameroun: enquete serologique","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Investigation of a possible yellow fever epidemic and serosurvey for flavivirus infections in northern Cameroon, 1984","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Post-encephalitic epilepsy and arbovirus infections in an isolated rainforest area of central Liberia","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1080/00034983.1975.11687035","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Arbovirus antibodies in Indonesians at Malili, South Sulawesi (Celebes) and Balikpapan, E. Kalimantan (Borneo)","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Sylvatic transmission of arboviruses among Bornean orangutans","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Epidemiological aspects of the 1969 yellow fever epidemic in Nigeria","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/0035-9203(83)90106-2","date":"1970-01-01","title":"A sero-epidemiological survey for certain arboviruses (Togaviridae) in Pakistan","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Zika","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1099/0022-1317-23-1-91","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The flaviviruses (group B arboviruses): a cross-neutralization study","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1128/JCM.00279-16","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Zika virus: diagnostics for an emerging pandemic threat","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Comparing more than two unrelated samples: the Kruskal-Wallis H-test","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.7326/0003-4819-151-4-200908180-00135","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Preferred reporting items for systematic reviews and meta-analyses: the PRISMA statement","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1002/jmv.1890290202","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Serological evidence of dengue fever among refugees, Hargeysa, Somalia","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/S0399-077X(85)80231-6","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Enquete seroepidemiologique en Camargue sur les virus transmis par les arthropodes, 1983","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Arboviruses in the Caribbean Islands","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Enquete sero-epidemiologique sur les arbovirus chez les pygmees Bi-Aka de la Lobaye, Empire centrafricain","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/0035-9203(83)90053-6","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Arthropod-borne virus antibodies in sera of residents of Kainji Lake Basin, Nigeria 1980","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Enquete immunologique sur l'incidence des arbovirus dans la population pygmee de l'est du Cameroun (Region de Djoum)","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/0035-9203(73)90041-2","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Large scale irrigation and arbovirus epidemiology, Kano Plain, Kenya: (II) preliminary serological survey","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Les arbovirus au Senegal: enquete serologique","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Donnees recentes apportees par les enquetes serologiques sur la prevalence des arbovirus en Afrique, avec reference speciale a la fievre jaune","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/0035-9203(52)90043-6","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Zika virus: (II) pathogenicity and physical properties","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/0035-9203(53)90021-2","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Epidemiological notes on some viruses isolated in Uganda (Yellow fever, Rift Valley fever, Bwamba fever, West Nile, Mengo, Semliki forest, Bunyamwera, Ntaya, Uganda S and Zika viruses)","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Epidemiological investigations on arbovirus infections at Igbo-Ora, Nigeria","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Les arboviroses dans la region de Tsiroanomandidy a Madagascar: etudes entomologiques, virologiques et serologiques","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Les arboviroses dans la region de Nosy-Be, Madagascar: donnees serologiques et entomologiques","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"A multipurpose serological survey in Kenya: (2) results of arbovirus serological tests","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Serological survey for arthropod-borne virus infections in the Philippines","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Arbovirus serological survey","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Yellow fever immunity surveys in northern Uganda and Kenya and eastern Somalia, 1966-67","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Serological surveys in East Africa and Somalia","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Serological survey for arboviruses in Uganda, 1967-69","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Enquete serologique pour les arbovirus au Gabon","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/0035-9203(79)90063-4","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Arbovirus antibodies in the human population of Hong Kong","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Arbovirus serology","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Arbovirus serology","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Provas de neutralizacao com soros de individuos residentes em Mocambique contra determinados virus isolados em Africa transmitidos por artropodes","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/0035-9203(65)90159-8","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Survey for antibodies against arthropod-borne viruses in the sera of indigenous residents of Angola","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/0035-9203(59)90072-0","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Yellow fever and other arthropod-borne viruses: a consideration of two serological surveys made in South Western Nigeria","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/0035-9203(74)90248-X","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Arbovirus studies in Nupeko Forest, a possible natural focus of yellow fever virus in Nigeria: (I) description of the area and serological survey of humans and other vertebrate hosts","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The 1970 yellow fever epidemic in Okwoga District, Benue Plateau State, Nigeria: (3) serological responses in persons with and without pre-existing heterologous group B immunity","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Surveillance de la circulation des arbovirus d'interet medical dans la region du Senegal oriental, 1988-1991","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Enquete serologique sur l'incidence des virus neurotropes en Afrique Equatoriale Francaise","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/0035-9203(63)90100-7","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Arthropod-borne virus antibodies in sera from residents of South-East Asia","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Antikorper gegen arboviren in der bevolkerung West-Kameruns","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Enquete serologique pour les arbovirus dans la population humaine du Senegal","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Les arbovirus en Cote d'Ivoire: enquete serologique dans la population humaine de la region d'Abengourou","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Enquete serologique et entomologique sur la fievre jaune en Sierra Leone","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Arboviroses humaines au Burundi: resultats d'une enquete seroepidemiologique, 1980-1982","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Enquete epidemiologique et serologique sur les arboviroses dans la basse vallee de l'Omo, Ethiopie meridionale","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/0035-9203(89)90352-0","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Arbovirus infections and viral haemorrhagic fevers in Uganda: a serological survey in Karamoja district, 1984","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Enquete serologique sur la prevalence de certains arbovirus dans la population humaine du sud-est de la Republique centrafricaine en 1979","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Enquete serologique sur l'incidence des arbovirus parmi les populations humaines et simiennes du sud-est de la Republique gabonaise","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Etudes sur la fievre jaune en Ethiopie: (2) enquete serologique sur la population humaine","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Neutralizing antibodies against certain recently isolated viruses in the sera of human beings residing in East Africa","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Immunity to certain arthropod-borne viruses among indigenous residents of Egypt","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Neutralizing antibodies against arthropod-borne viruses in the sera of long-time residents of Malaya and Borneo","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Neutralizing antibodies against certain viruses in the sera of residents of India","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Serology","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1126/science.aaf5036","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Zika virus in the Americas: early epidemiological and genetic findings","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Yellow fever and dengue: a threat to Europe?","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Zika virus infection complicated by Guillain-Barre syndrome - case report, French Polynesia, December 2013","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Zika virus in the Americas:yet another arbovirus threat","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[{"doi":"10.1016/j.envpol.2017.02.060","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Insecticide pyrethroids in liver of striped dolphin from the Mediterranean Sea","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1038/emi.2016.103","date":"2016-07-30","title":"Zika virus-associated brain damage: animal models and open issues","abstract":"","id":"PMC5113054","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Nature Publishing Group","authors":[{"firstname":"Giovanni","surname":"Di Guardo","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Patrícia Baleeiro Beltrão","surname":"Braga","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jean Pierre Schatzmann","surname":"Peron","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.1056/NEJMp1600297","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Zika virus in the Americas - Yet another Arbovirus threat","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The emerging role of Wolbachia species in heartworm disease","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1093/infdis/jix396","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Modes of transmission of Zika virus","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1136/bmj.i1086","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Genetically modified mosquitoes may be used in fight against Zika","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1128/JVI.02022-10","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Sheep with scrapie and mastitis transmit infectious prions through the milk","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.3389/fphys.2012.00196","date":"2012-05-22","title":"Heartworm Disease (<italic>Dirofilaria immitis</italic>) and Their Vectors in Europe – New Distribution Trends","abstract":"Cardiopulmonary dirofilariasis is a cosmopolitan disease caused by Dirofilaria immitis, which affects mainly canids and felids.\n Moreover, it causes zoonotic infections, producing pulmonary dirofilariasis in humans.\n Heartworm disease is a vector-borne transmitted disease, thus transmission depends on the presence of competent mosquito species, which is directly related to favorable climate conditions for its development and survival.\n Cardiopulmonary dirofilariasis is mainly located in countries with temperate and tropical climates.\n Europe is one of the continents where animal dirofilariasis has been studied more extensively.\n In this article we review the current prevalence of canine and feline cardiopulmonary dirofilariasis in the European continent, the transmission vectors, the current changes in the distribution and the possible causes, though the analysis of the epidemiological studies carried out until 2001 and between 2002 and 2011. The highest prevalences have been observed in the southern European countries, which are considered historically endemic/hyperendemic countries.\n Studies carried out in the last 10?years suggest an expansion of cardiopulmonary dirofilariasis in dogs toward central and northern Europe.\n Several factors can exert an influence on the spreading of the disease, such as movement of infected animals, the introduction of new species of mosquitoes able to act as vectors, the climate change caused by the global warming, and development of human activity in new areas.\n Veterinary controls to prevent the spreading of this disease, programs of control of vectors, and adequate protocols of prevention of dirofilariasis in the susceptible species should be carried out.\n","id":"PMC3372948","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Frontiers Research Foundation","authors":[{"firstname":"Rodrigo","surname":"Morchón","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"E.","surname":"Carretón","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"J.","surname":"González-Miguel","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"I.","surname":"Mellado-Hernández","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"US Government approves &quot;killer&quot; mosquitoes to fight disease","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/j.chom.2016.12.005","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Host-to-host transmission of Streptococcus pneumoniae is driven by its inflammatory toxin, pneumolysin","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"A Socio-economic Impact Assessment of the Zika Virus in Latin America and the Caribbean: with a focus on Brazil, Colombia and Suriname","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Zika virus: A public health threat","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Zika Cumulative Cases - 29-December","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Weekly epidemilogical bulletin No. 52","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Weekly epidemilogical bulletin No. 29","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Public Health Surveillance Protocol: Zika Virus Disease","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Response Plan against Zika Virus Fever","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Provisional Guidelines for the Clinical Approach of Pregnant Women Exposed to Zika virus in Colombia","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The prevention and control of HIV/AIDS, TB and vector-borne diseases in informal settlements: Challenges, opportunities and insights","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[{"doi":"10.1177/095624789600800220","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Health inequalities in urban areas: a guide to the literature","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Beyond magic solutions: prevention of HIV and AIDS as a process of psychosocial emancipation","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Longer delays in tuberculosis diagnosis among women in Vietnam","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Urbanization and health in developing countries: a challenge for health for all","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Dengue and health care access: The role of social determinants of health in dengue surveillance in Colombia","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The zika virus epidemic in Brazil: From discovery to future implications","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[{"doi":"10.1016/j.antiviral.2016.03.010","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Zika virus: History, emergence, biology, and prospects for control","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.2105/AJPH.2016.303112","date":"1970-01-01","title":"History, epidemiology, and clinical manifestations of Zika: A systematic review","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.2471/BLT.16.171082","date":"2016-04-18","title":"Zika: the origin and spread of a mosquito-borne virus","abstract":"Objective\nTo describe the temporal and geographical distribution of Zika virus infection and associated neurological disorders, from 1947 to 1 February 2016, when Zika became a Public Health Emergency of International Concern (PHEIC).\n\n\nMethods\nWe did a literature search using the terms “Zika” and “ZIKV” in PubMed, cross-checked the findings for completeness against other published reviews and added formal notifications to WHO submitted under the International Health Regulations.\n\n\nFindings\nFrom the discovery of Zika virus in Uganda in 1947 to the declaration of a PHEIC by the World Health Organization (WHO) on 1 February 2016, a total of 74 countries and territories had reported human Zika virus infections.\n\n The timeline in this paper charts the discovery of the virus (1947), its isolation from mosquitos (1948), the first human infection (1952), the initial spread of infection from Asia to a Pacific island (2007), the first known instance of sexual transmission (2008), reports of Guillain-Barré syndrome (2014) and microcephaly (2015) linked to Zika infections and the first appearance of Zika in the Americas (from 2015).\n\n\nConclusion\nZika virus infection in humans appears to have changed in character as its geographical range has expanded from equatorial Africa and Asia.\n\n The change is from an endemic, mosquito-borne infection causing mild illness to one that can cause large outbreaks linked with neurological sequelae and congenital abnormalities.\n\n\n","id":"PMC5034643","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"World Health Organization","authors":[{"firstname":"Mary Kay","surname":"Kindhauser","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Tomas","surname":"Allen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Veronika","surname":"Frank","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ravi Shankar","surname":"Santhana","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Christopher","surname":"Dye","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1126/science.aaf5036","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Zika virus in the Americas: Early epidemiological and genetic findings","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1590/0074-02760150192","date":"2015-05-25","title":"First report of autochthonous transmission of Zika virus in\nBrazil","abstract":"In the early 2015, several cases of patients presenting symptoms of mild fever, rash,\nconjunctivitis and arthralgia were reported in the northeastern Brazil.\n Although all\npatients lived in a dengue endemic area, molecular and serological diagnosis for\ndengue resulted negative.\n Chikungunya virus infection was also discarded.\n\nSubsequently, Zika virus (ZIKV) was detected by reverse transcription-polymerase\nchain reaction from the sera of eight patients and the result was confirmed by DNA\nsequencing.\n Phylogenetic analysis suggests that the ZIKV identified belongs to the\nAsian clade.\n This is the first report of ZIKV infection in Brazil.\n","id":"PMC4501423","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Instituto Oswaldo Cruz, Ministério da Saúde","authors":[{"firstname":"Camila","surname":"Zanluca","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Vanessa Campos Andrade","surname":"de Melo","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ana Luiza Pamplona","surname":"Mosimann","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Glauco Igor Viana","surname":"dos Santos","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Claudia Nunes Duarte","surname":"dos Santos","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Kleber","surname":"Luz","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.3201/eid2110.150847","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Zika Virus Outbreak, Bahia, Brazil","abstract":"","id":"PMC4593454","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Centers for Disease Control and Prevention","authors":[{"firstname":"Gubio S.","surname":"Campos","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Antonio C.","surname":"Bandeira","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Silvia I.","surname":"Sardi","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Dengue, Chikungunya e Zika","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1111/tmi.12227","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Expansion of the dengue transmission area in Brazil: The role of climate and cities","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Mapeamento da reemergencia do dengue no Brasil-1981/82-2008","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1128/mBio.01390-17","date":"2017-10-12","title":"High Zika Virus Seroprevalence in Salvador, Northeastern Brazil Limits the Potential for Further Outbreaks","abstract":"During 2015 to 2016, Brazil reported more Zika virus (ZIKV) cases than any other country, yet population exposure remains unknown.\n Serological studies of ZIKV are hampered by cross-reactive immune responses against heterologous viruses.\n We conducted serosurveys for ZIKV, dengue virus (DENV), and Chikungunya virus (CHIKV) in 633 individuals prospectively sampled during 2015 to 2016, including microcephaly and non-microcephaly pregnancies, HIV-infected patients, tuberculosis patients, and university staff in Salvador in northeastern Brazil using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays (ELISAs) and plaque reduction neutralization tests.\n Sera sampled retrospectively during 2013 to 2015 from 277 HIV-infected patients were used to assess the spread of ZIKV over time.\n Individuals were georeferenced, and sociodemographic indicators were compared between ZIKV-positive and -negative areas and areas with and without microcephaly cases.\n Epidemiological key parameters were modeled in a Bayesian framework.\n ZIKV seroprevalence increased rapidly during 2015 to 2016, reaching 63.3% by 2016 (95% confidence interval [CI], 59.4 to 66.8%), comparable to the seroprevalence of DENV (75.7%; CI, 69.4 to 81.1%) and higher than that of CHIKV (7.4%; CI, 5.6 to 9.8%).\n Of 19 microcephaly pregnancies, 94.7% showed ZIKV IgG antibodies, compared to 69.3% of 257 non-microcephaly pregnancies (P = 0.017).\n Analyses of sociodemographic data revealed a higher ZIKV burden in low socioeconomic status (SES) areas.\n High seroprevalence, combined with case data dynamics allowed estimates of the basic reproduction number R0 of 2.1 (CI, 1.8 to 2.5) at the onset of the outbreak and an effective reproductive number Reff of &lt;1 in subsequent years.\n Our data corroborate ZIKV-associated congenital disease and an association of low SES and ZIKV infection and suggest that population immunity caused cessation of the outbreak.\n Similar studies from other areas will be required to determine the fate of the American ZIKV outbreak.\n","id":"PMC5686533","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"American Society for Microbiology","authors":[{"firstname":"Eduardo Martins","surname":"Netto","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Andres","surname":"Moreira-Soto","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Celia","surname":"Pedroso","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Christoph","surname":"Höser","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Sebastian","surname":"Funk","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Adam J.","surname":"Kucharski","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Alexandra","surname":"Rockstroh","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Beate M.","surname":"Kümmerer","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Gilmara Souza","surname":"Sampaio","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Estela","surname":"Luz","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Sara Nunes","surname":"Vaz","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Juarez Pereira","surname":"Dias","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Fernanda Anjos","surname":"Bastos","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Renata","surname":"Cabral","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Thomas","surname":"Kistemann","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Sebastian","surname":"Ulbert","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Xavier","surname":"de Lamballerie","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Thomas","surname":"Jaenisch","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Oliver J.","surname":"Brady","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Christian","surname":"Drosten","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Manoel","surname":"Sarno","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Carlos","surname":"Brites","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jan Felix","surname":"Drexler","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ann M.","surname":"Powers","email":"NULL","contributions":"4"},{"firstname":"Ann M.","surname":"Powers","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"James M.","surname":"Hughes","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Ministerio da Saude Monitoramento dos casos de dengue, febre de chikungunya e febre pelo virus Zika ate a semana epidemiologica 25, 2017","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1126/science.aag0219","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Countering the Zika epidemic in Latin America","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/j.antiviral.2017.06.001","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Zika in the Americas, year 2: What have we learned? What gaps remain? A report from the Global Virus Network","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.2105/AJPH.2016.303113","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The epidemic of Zika virus-related microcephaly in Brazil: Detection, control, etiology, and future scenarios","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Ministerio da Saude Situacao epidemiologica de ocorrencia de microcefalias no Brasil, 2015","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"WHO Director-General Summarizes the Outcome of the Emergency Committee Regarding Clusters of Microcephaly and Guillain-Barre Syndrome","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Bilan de l'epidemie a virus Zika en Polynesie Francaise, 2013-2014","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Secretaria de Vigilancia em Saude:Ministerio da Saude monitoramento dos casos de dengue, febre de chikungunya e febre pelo virus Zika ate a semana epidemiologica 52, 2016","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/S0140-6736(16)00273-7","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Microcephaly in Brazil: How to interpret reported numbers?","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1590/0102-311X00017216","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Microcephaly in Pernambuco State, Brazil: Epidemiological characteristics and evaluation of the diagnostic accuracy of cutoff points for reporting suspected cases","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1590/0102-311X00046316","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Zika virus and women","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"RESP:Registro de Eventos em Saude Publica","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Zika:Epidemiological Report. Brazil","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Ministerio da Saude Zika virus: Perfil epidemiologico em mulheres","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.3201/eid2211.160901","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Increased Hospitalizations for Neuropathies as Indicators of Zika Virus Infection, according to Health Information System Data, Brazil","abstract":"Neurologic manifestations of Zika infection must be adequately recognized and treated; our study methods can be used for monitoring and warning systems.\n","id":"PMC5088029","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Centers for Disease Control and Prevention","authors":[{"firstname":"Christovam","surname":"Barcellos","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Diego Ricardo","surname":"Xavier","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ana Luiza","surname":"Pavão","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Cristiano Siqueira","surname":"Boccolini","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Maria Fatima","surname":"Pina","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Marcel","surname":"Pedroso","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Dalia","surname":"Romero","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Anselmo Rocha","surname":"Romão","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.1016/S0140-6736(17)31368-5","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Infection-related microcephaly after the 2015 and 2016 Zika virus outbreaks in Brazil: A surveillance-based analysis","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1590/0102-311XED010715","date":"1970-01-01","title":"We must pay more attention to record linkage quality","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1126/science.1129134","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Infectious diseases: Preparing for the future","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.5210/ojphi.v5i2.4703","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Steps to a Sustainable Public Health Surveillance Enterprise?A\nCommentary from the International Society for Disease\nSurveillance","abstract":"More than a decade into the 21st century, the ability to effectively\nmonitor community health status, as well as forecast, detect, and respond to\ndisease outbreaks and other events of public health significance, remains a\nmajor challenge.\n As an issue that affects population health, economic stability,\nand global security, the public health surveillance enterprise warrants the\nattention of decision makers at all levels.\n","id":"PMC3733763","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"University of Illinois at Chicago Library","authors":[{"firstname":"Nabila","surname":"Mirza","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Tera","surname":"Reynolds","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Michael","surname":"Coletta","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Katie","surname":"Suda","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ireneous","surname":"Soyiri","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ariana","surname":"Markle","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Henry","surname":"Leopold","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Leslie","surname":"Lenert","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Erika","surname":"Samoff","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Alan","surname":"Siniscalchi","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Laura","surname":"Streichert","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.1371/journal.pntd.0002681","date":"2013-12-19","title":"Zika Virus in Gabon (Central Africa) – 2007: A New Threat from <italic>Aedes albopictus</italic>?","abstract":"Background\nChikungunya and dengue viruses emerged in Gabon in 2007, with large outbreaks primarily affecting the capital Libreville and several northern towns.\n\n Both viruses subsequently spread to the south-east of the country, with new outbreaks occurring in 2010. The mosquito species Aedes albopictus, that was known as a secondary vector for both viruses, recently invaded the country and was the primary vector involved in the Gabonese outbreaks.\n\n We conducted a retrospective study of human sera and mosquitoes collected in Gabon from 2007 to 2010, in order to identify other circulating arboviruses.\n\n\nMethodology/Principal Findings\nSample collections, including 4312 sera from patients presenting with painful febrile disease, and 4665 mosquitoes belonging to 9 species, split into 247 pools (including 137 pools of Aedes albopictus), were screened with molecular biology methods.\n\n Five human sera and two Aedes albopictus pools, all sampled in an urban setting during the 2007 outbreak, were positive for the flavivirus Zika (ZIKV).\n\n The ratio of Aedes albopictus pools positive for ZIKV was similar to that positive for dengue virus during the concomitant dengue outbreak suggesting similar mosquito infection rates and, presumably, underlying a human ZIKV outbreak.\n\n ZIKV sequences from the envelope and NS3 genes were amplified from a human serum sample.\n\n Phylogenetic analysis placed the Gabonese ZIKV at a basal position in the African lineage, pointing to ancestral genetic diversification and spread.\n\n\nConclusions/Significance\nWe provide the first direct evidence of human ZIKV infections in Gabon, and its first occurrence in the Asian tiger mosquito, Aedes albopictus.\n\n These data reveal an unusual natural life cycle for this virus, occurring in an urban environment, and potentially representing a new emerging threat due to this novel association with a highly invasive vector whose geographic range is still expanding across the globe.\n\n\n","id":"PMC3916288","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Public Library of Science","authors":[{"firstname":"Gilda","surname":"Grard","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Mélanie","surname":"Caron","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Illich Manfred","surname":"Mombo","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Dieudonné","surname":"Nkoghe","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Statiana","surname":"Mboui Ondo","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Davy","surname":"Jiolle","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Didier","surname":"Fontenille","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Christophe","surname":"Paupy","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Eric Maurice","surname":"Leroy","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Remi","surname":"Charrel","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Remi","surname":"Charrel","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1371/journal.pntd.0004543","date":"2016-02-24","title":"Differential Susceptibilities of <italic>Aedes aegypti</italic> and <italic>Aedes albopictus</italic> from the Americas to Zika Virus","abstract":"Background\nSince the major outbreak in 2007 in the Yap Island, Zika virus (ZIKV) causing dengue-like syndromes has affected multiple islands of the South Pacific region.\n\n In May 2015, the virus was detected in Brazil and then spread through South and Central America.\n\n In December 2015, ZIKV was detected in French Guiana and Martinique.\n\n The aim of the study was to evaluate the vector competence of the mosquito spp.\n\n Aedes aegypti and Aedes albopictus from the Caribbean (Martinique, Guadeloupe), North America (southern United States), South America (Brazil, French Guiana) for the currently circulating Asian genotype of ZIKV isolated from a patient in April 2014 in New Caledonia.\n\n\nMethodology/Principal Findings\nMosquitoes were orally exposed to an Asian genotype of ZIKV (NC-2014-5132).\n\n Upon exposure, engorged mosquitoes were maintained at 28°±1°C, a 16h:8h light:dark cycle and 80% humidity.\n\n 25–30 mosquitoes were processed at 4, 7 and 14 days post-infection (dpi).\n\n Mosquito bodies (thorax and abdomen), heads and saliva were analyzed to measure infection, dissemination and transmission, respectively.\n\n High infection but lower disseminated infection and transmission rates were observed for both Ae.\n\n aegypti and Ae.\n\n albopictus.\n\n Ae.\n\n aegypti populations from Guadeloupe and French Guiana exhibited a higher dissemination of ZIKV than the other Ae.\n\n aegypti populations examined.\n\n Transmission of ZIKV was observed in both mosquito species at 14 dpi but at a low level.\n\n\nConclusions/Significance\nThis study suggests that although susceptible to infection, Ae.\n\n aegypti and Ae.\n\n albopictus were unexpectedly low competent vectors for ZIKV.\n\n This may suggest that other factors such as the large naïve population for ZIKV and the high densities of human-biting mosquitoes contribute to the rapid spread of ZIKV during the current outbreak.\n\n\n","id":"PMC4777396","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Public Library of Science","authors":[{"firstname":"Thais","surname":"Chouin-Carneiro","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Anubis","surname":"Vega-Rua","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Marie","surname":"Vazeille","email":"NULL","contributions":"3"},{"firstname":"André","surname":"Yebakima","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Romain","surname":"Girod","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Daniella","surname":"Goindin","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Myrielle","surname":"Dupont-Rouzeyrol","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ricardo","surname":"Lourenço-de-Oliveira","email":"NULL","contributions":"7"},{"firstname":"Anna-Bella","surname":"Failloux","email":"NULL","contributions":"5"},{"firstname":"Michael J","surname":"Turell","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Michael J","surname":"Turell","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1093/jme/tjx058","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Evidence of Zika virus RNA fragments in Aedes albopictus (Diptera: Culicidae) field-collected eggs from Camacari, Bahia, Brazil","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1603/0022-2585-40.6.785","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Convergent habitat segregation of Aedes aegypti and Aedes albopictus (Diptera: Culicidae) in southeastern Brazil and Florida","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1603/033.046.0505","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Temporal distribution of Aedes aegypti in different districts of Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, measured by two types of traps","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1146/annurev.ento.47.091201.145206","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Invasions by insect vectors of human disease","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1093/infdis/jiw285","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Invasiveness of Aedes aegypti and Aedes albopictus and vectorial capacity for chikungunya virus","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1371/journal.pntd.0002990","date":"2014-05-19","title":"Evidence of Experimental Vertical Transmission of Emerging Novel ECSA Genotype of Chikungunya Virus in <italic>Aedes aegypti</italic>\n","abstract":"Background\nChikungunya virus (CHIKV) has emerged as one of the most important arboviruses of public health significance in the past decade.\n\n The virus is mainly maintained through human-mosquito-human cycle.\n\n Other routes of transmission and the mechanism of maintenance of the virus in nature are not clearly known.\n\n Vertical transmission may be a mechanism of sustaining the virus during inter-epidemic periods.\n\n Laboratory experiments were conducted to determine whether Aedes aegypti, a principal vector, is capable of vertically transmitting CHIKV or not.\n\n\nMethodology/Principal Findings\nFemale Ae.\n\n aegypti were orally infected with a novel ECSA genotype of CHIKV in the 2nd gonotrophic cycle.\n\n On day 10 post infection, a non-infectious blood meal was provided to obtain another cycle of eggs.\n\n Larvae and adults developed from the eggs obtained following both infectious and non-infectious blood meal were tested for the presence of CHIKV specific RNA through real time RT-PCR.\n\n The results revealed that the larvae and adults developed from eggs derived from the infectious blood meal (2nd gonotrophic cycle) were negative for CHIKV RNA.\n\n However, the larvae and adults developed after subsequent non-infectious blood meal (3rd gonotrophic cycle) were positive with minimum filial infection rates of 28.2 (1?35.5) and 20.2 (1?49.5) respectively.\n\n\nConclusion/Significance\nThis study is the first to confirm experimental vertical transmission of emerging novel ECSA genotype of CHIKV in Ae.\n\n aegypti from India, indicating the possibilities of occurrence of this phenomenon in nature.\n\n This evidence may have important consequence for survival of CHIKV during adverse climatic conditions and inter-epidemic periods.\n\n\n","id":"PMC4117456","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Public Library of Science","authors":[{"firstname":"Ankita","surname":"Agarwal","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Paban Kumar","surname":"Dash","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Anil Kumar","surname":"Singh","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Shashi","surname":"Sharma","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Natarajan","surname":"Gopalan","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Putcha Venkata Lakshmana","surname":"Rao","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Man Mohan","surname":"Parida","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Paul","surname":"Reiter","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Michael J.","surname":"Turell","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Michael J.","surname":"Turell","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1590/S0102-311X2006001000013","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Frequencia e distribuicao espacial de Aedes aegypti e Aedes albopictus (Diptera, Culicidae) no Rio de Janeiro, Brasil Frequency and spatial distribution of Aedes aegypti and Aedes albopictus (Diptera, Culicidae)","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.7554/eLife.08347","date":"2015-06-18","title":"The global distribution of the arbovirus vectors <italic>Aedes aegypti</italic> and <italic>Ae. albopictus</italic>","abstract":"Dengue and chikungunya are increasing global public health concerns due to their rapid geographical spread and increasing disease burden.\n Knowledge of the contemporary distribution of their shared vectors, Aedes aegypti and Aedes albopictus remains incomplete and is complicated by an ongoing range expansion fuelled by increased global trade and travel.\n Mapping the global distribution of these vectors and the geographical determinants of their ranges is essential for public health planning.\n Here we compile the largest contemporary database for both species and pair it with relevant environmental variables predicting their global distribution.\n We show Aedes distributions to be the widest ever recorded; now extensive in all continents, including North America and Europe.\n These maps will help define the spatial limits of current autochthonous transmission of dengue and chikungunya viruses.\n It is only with this kind of rigorous entomological baseline that we can hope to project future health impacts of these viruses.\n","id":"PMC4493616","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"eLife Sciences Publications, Ltd","authors":[{"firstname":"Moritz UG","surname":"Kraemer","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Marianne E","surname":"Sinka","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Kirsten A","surname":"Duda","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Adrian QN","surname":"Mylne","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Freya M","surname":"Shearer","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Christopher M","surname":"Barker","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Chester G","surname":"Moore","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Roberta G","surname":"Carvalho","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Giovanini E","surname":"Coelho","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Wim","surname":"Van Bortel","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Guy","surname":"Hendrickx","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Francis","surname":"Schaffner","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Iqbal RF","surname":"Elyazar","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hwa-Jen","surname":"Teng","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Oliver J","surname":"Brady","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jane P","surname":"Messina","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"David M","surname":"Pigott","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Thomas W","surname":"Scott","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"David L","surname":"Smith","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"GR William","surname":"Wint","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Nick","surname":"Golding","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Simon I","surname":"Hay","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Mark","surname":"Jit","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Mark","surname":"Jit","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Mark","surname":"Jit","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Mark","surname":"Jit","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1590/0074-02760160332","date":"2016-08-25","title":"First detection of natural infection of <italic>Aedes aegypti</italic>\nwith Zika virus in Brazil and throughout South America","abstract":"Zika virus (ZIKV) has caused a major epidemic in Brazil and several other American\ncountries.\n ZIKV is an arbovirus whose natural vectors during epidemics have been\npoorly determined.\n In this study, 1,683 mosquitoes collected in the vicinity of ZIKV\nsuspected cases in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, from June 2015 to May 2016 were screened\nfor natural infection by using molecular methods.\n Three pools of Aedes\naegypti were found with the ZIKV genome, one of which had only one male.\n\nThis finding supports the occurrence of vertical and/or venereal transmission of ZIKV\nin Ae.\n aegypti in nature.\n None of the examined\nAe.\n albopictus and Culex quinquefasciatus was\npositive.\n This is the first report of natural infection by ZIKV in mosquitoes in\nBrazil and other South American countries.\n So far, Ae.\n aegypti is\nthe only confirmed vector of ZIKV during the ongoing Pan-American epidemics.\n","id":"PMC5066335","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Instituto Oswaldo Cruz, Ministério da Saúde","authors":[{"firstname":"Anielly","surname":"Ferreira-de-Brito","email":"NULL","contributions":"3"},{"firstname":"Ieda P","surname":"Ribeiro","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Rafaella Moraes","surname":"de Miranda","email":"NULL","contributions":"3"},{"firstname":"Rosilainy Surubi","surname":"Fernandes","email":"NULL","contributions":"3"},{"firstname":"Stéphanie Silva","surname":"Campos","email":"NULL","contributions":"3"},{"firstname":"Keli Antunes Barbosa","surname":"da Silva","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Marcia Gonçalves","surname":"de Castro","email":"NULL","contributions":"3"},{"firstname":"Myrna C","surname":"Bonaldo","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Patrícia","surname":"Brasil","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ricardo","surname":"Lourenço-de-Oliveira","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1093/infdis/jiw302","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Outbreak of Zika virus infection, Chiapas State, Mexico, 2015, and first confirmed transmission by Aedes aegypti mosquitoes in the Americas","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.3201/eid2308.162007","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Early Evidence for Zika Virus Circulation among <italic>Aedes aegypti</italic> Mosquitoes, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil","abstract":"During 2014–2016, we conducted mosquito-based Zika virus surveillance in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.\n Results suggest that Zika virus was probably introduced into the area during May–November 2013 via multiple in-country sources.\n Furthermore, our results strengthen the hypothesis that Zika virus in the Americas originated in Brazil during October 2012–May 2013.","id":"PMC5547780","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Centers for Disease Control and Prevention","authors":[{"firstname":"Tania","surname":"Ayllón","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Renata de Mendonça","surname":"Campos","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Patrícia","surname":"Brasil","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Fernanda Cristina","surname":"Morone","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Daniel Cardoso Portela","surname":"Câmara","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Guilherme Louzada Silva","surname":"Meira","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Egbert","surname":"Tannich","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Kristie Aimi","surname":"Yamamoto","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Marilia Sá","surname":"Carvalho","email":"NULL","contributions":"4"},{"firstname":"Renata Saraiva","surname":"Pedro","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jonas","surname":"Schmidt-Chanasit","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Daniel","surname":"Cadar","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Davis Fernandes","surname":"Ferreira","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Nildimar Alves","surname":"Honório","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.4269/ajtmh.16-0448","date":"2016-08-01","title":"Vertical Transmission of Zika Virus in <italic>Aedes aegypti</italic> Mosquitoes","abstract":"Previous experimental studies have demonstrated that a number of mosquito-borne flavivirus pathogens are vertically transmitted in their insect vectors, providing a mechanism for these arboviruses to persist during adverse climatic conditions or in the absence of a susceptible vertebrate host.\n In this study, designed to test whether Zika virus (ZIKV) could be vertically transmitted, female Aedes aegypti and Aedes albopictus were injected with ZIKV, and their F1 adult progeny were tested for ZIKV infection.\n Six of 69 Ae.\n aegypti pools, comprised of a total of 1,738 F1 adults, yielded ZIKV upon culture, giving a minimum filial infection rate of 1:290. In contrast, none of 803 F1\nAe.\n albopictus adults (32 pools) yielded ZIKV.\n The MFIR for Ae.\n aegypti was comparable to MFIRs reported for other flaviviruses in mosquitoes, including dengue, Japanese encephalitis, yellow fever, West Nile, and St.\n Louis encephalitis viruses.\n The results suggest that vertical transmission may provide a potential mechanism for the virus to survive during adverse conditions.\n","id":"PMC5094235","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"The American Society of Tropical Medicine and Hygiene","authors":[{"firstname":"Saravanan","surname":"Thangamani","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jing","surname":"Huang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Charles E.","surname":"Hart","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hilda","surname":"Guzman","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Robert B.","surname":"Tesh","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1186/s13071-017-2543-4","date":"2017-11-20","title":"Zika virus can be venereally transmitted between <italic>Aedes aegypti</italic> mosquitoes","abstract":"Background\nid='Par1'>Alternative transmission routes have been described for Zika virus (ZIKV).\n\n Here, we assessed for the first time the venereal transmission of ZIKV between Aedes aegypti under laboratory conditions.\n\n\n\nResults\nid='Par2'>Orally-infected mosquito females were able to transmit the virus to males venereally, and males inoculated intrathoracically were capable of infecting females during mating.\n\n The genome of venereally-transmitted virus recovered from males was identical to that of ZIKV ingested by mated females.\n\n\nConclusion\nid='Par3'>We conclude that venereal transmission between Aedes mosquitoes might contribute to Zika virus maintenance in nature.\n\n\n","id":"PMC5731190","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"BioMed Central","authors":[{"firstname":"Stéphanie Silva","surname":"Campos","email":"stephaniecampos_2@hotmail.com","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Rosilainy Surubi","surname":"Fernandes","email":"rosilainy.fernandes@ioc.fiocruz.br","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Alexandre Araujo Cunha","surname":"dos Santos","email":"xandeacs@ioc.fiocruz.br","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Rafaella Moraes","surname":"de Miranda","email":"rafaell.biologia@gmail.com","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Erich Loza","surname":"Telleria","email":"erichlt@ioc.fiocruz.br","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Anielly","surname":"Ferreira-de-Brito","email":"aniellya@ioc.fiocruz.br","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Marcia Gonçalves","surname":"de Castro","email":"mcastro@ioc.fiocruz.br","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Anna-Bella","surname":"Failloux","email":"anna-bella.failloux@pasteur.fr","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Myrna C.","surname":"Bonaldo","email":"mbonaldo@ioc.fiocruz.br","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Ricardo","surname":"Lourenço-de-Oliveira","email":"lourenco@ioc.fiocruz.br","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1590/0074-02760170329","date":"2017-10-10","title":"First evidence of Zika virus venereal transmission in <italic>Aedes\naegypti</italic> mosquitoes","abstract":"BACKGROUND\n\nAedes aegypti is considered the main Zika virus (ZIKV)\nvector, and is thought to be responsible for the 2015-2016 outbreak in\nBrazil.\n\n Zika positive Ae.\n\n aegypti males collected in the\nfield suggest that vertical and/or venereal transmission of ZIKV may\noccur.\n\n\nOBJECTIVES\n In this study, we aimed to demonstrate that venereal transmission of ZIKV by\nAe.\n\n aegypti can occur under laboratory conditions.\n\n\nMETHODS\n\nAe.\n\n aegypti collected in the city of Manaus, confirmed as\nnegative for Zika, Dengue and Chikungunya virus by reverse transcription\nreal-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR) (AaM3V- strain),\nwere reared under laboratory conditions and used for the experiments.\n\n The\nZIKV used in this study was isolated from a patient presenting with\nsymptoms; ZIKV was confirmed by RT-qPCR.\n\n Experiment 1: virgin male\nmosquitoes of AaM3V- strain were intrathoracically inoculated\nwith a ZIKV suspension; four days after injection, they were transferred to\na cage containing virgin females of AaM3V- strain and left to\ncopulate for five days.\n\n Experiment 2: virgin female mosquitoes of\nAaM3V- strain were orally infected with a ZIKV suspension by\nblood feeding membrane assay; nine days after blood feeding, they were\nplaced in cages with Ae.\n\n aegypti AaM3V- virgin\nmales and left to copulate for four days.\n\n After copulation, all mosquitoes\nwere individually evaluated for viral infection by RT-qPCR.\n\n\nFINDINGS\n The mean infection rate in Experiment 1 and Experiment 2 was 45% and 35%,\nrespectively.\n\n In both experiments, cycle threshold values ranged from 13 to\n35, indicating the presence of viral genomes.\n\n\nMAIN CONCLUSION\n\nAe.\n\n aegypti males intrathoracically inoculated with a ZIKV\nsuspension are infected and can transmit the virus to uninfected females by\nmating.\n\n Moreover, Ae.\n\n aegypti females orally infected with\na ZIKV suspension can transmit the virus to uninfected males by copulation.\n\n\nThis study shows that ZIKV infection of Ae.\n\n aegypti\nmosquitoes occurs not only during blood feeding, but also during\ncopulation.\n\n\n","id":"PMC5719534","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Instituto Oswaldo Cruz, Ministério da Saúde","authors":[{"firstname":"Jordam William","surname":"Pereira-Silva","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Valdinete Alves","surname":"do Nascimento","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Heliana Christy Matos","surname":"Belchior","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jéssica Feijó","surname":"Almeida","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Felipe Arley Costa","surname":"Pessoa","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Felipe Gomes","surname":"Naveca","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Claudia María","surname":"Ríos-Velásquez","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.1371/journal.pntd.0005654","date":"2017-05-19","title":"Mosquito co-infection with Zika and chikungunya virus allows simultaneous transmission without affecting vector competence of <italic>Aedes aegypti</italic>","abstract":"Background\nZika virus (ZIKV) and chikungunya virus (CHIKV) are highly pathogenic arthropod-borne viruses that are currently a serious health burden in the Americas, and elsewhere in the world.\n\n ZIKV and CHIKV co-circulate in the same geographical regions and are mainly transmitted by Aedes aegypti mosquitoes.\n\n There is a growing number of case reports of ZIKV and CHIKV co-infections in humans, but it is uncertain whether co-infection occurs via single or multiple mosquito bites.\n\n Here we investigate the potential of Ae.\n\n aegypti mosquitoes to transmit both ZIKV and CHIKV in one bite, and we assess the consequences of co-infection on vector competence.\n\n\nMethodology/Principal findings\nFirst, growth curves indicated that co-infection with CHIKV negatively affects ZIKV production in mammalian, but not in mosquito cells.\n\n Next, Ae.\n\n aegypti mosquitoes were infected with ZIKV, CHIKV, or co-infected via an infectious blood meal or intrathoracic injections.\n\n Infection and transmission rates, as well as viral titers of positive mosquitoes, were determined at 14 days after blood meal or 7 days after injection.\n\n Saliva and bodies of (co-)infected mosquitoes were scored concurrently for the presence of ZIKV and/or CHIKV using a dual-colour immunofluorescence assay.\n\n The results show that orally exposed Ae.\n\n aegypti mosquitoes are highly competent, with transmission rates of up to 73% for ZIKV, 21% for CHIKV, and 12% of mosquitoes transmitting both viruses in one bite.\n\n However, simultaneous oral exposure to both viruses did not change infection and transmission rates compared to exposure to a single virus.\n\n Intrathoracic injections indicate that the selected strain of Ae.\n\n aegypti has a strong salivary gland barrier for CHIKV, but a less profound barrier for ZIKV.\n\n\nConclusions/Significance\nThis study shows that Ae.\n\n aegypti can transmit both ZIKV and CHIKV via a single bite.\n\n Furthermore, co-infection of ZIKV and CHIKV does not influence the vector competence of Ae.\n\n aegypti.\n\n\n","id":"PMC5469501","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Public Library of Science","authors":[{"firstname":"Giel P.","surname":"Göertz","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Chantal B. F.","surname":"Vogels","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Corinne","surname":"Geertsema","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Constantianus J. M.","surname":"Koenraadt","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Gorben P.","surname":"Pijlman","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jason L.","surname":"Rasgon","email":"NULL","contributions":"3"},{"firstname":"Jason L.","surname":"Rasgon","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jason L.","surname":"Rasgon","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1371/journal.pntd.0000706","date":"2010-04-20","title":"Orally Co-Infected <italic>Aedes albopictus</italic> from La Reunion Island, Indian Ocean, Can Deliver Both Dengue and Chikungunya Infectious Viral Particles in Their Saliva","abstract":"Background\nFirst described in humans in 1964, reports of co-infections with dengue (DENV) and chikungunya (CHIKV) viruses are increasing, particularly after the emergence of chikungunya (CHIK) in the Indian Ocean in 2005–2006 due to a new variant highly transmitted by Aedes albopictus.\n\n In this geographic area, a dengue (DEN) outbreak transmitted by Ae.\n\n albopictus took place shortly before the emergence of CHIK and co-infections were reported in patients.\n\n A co-infection in humans can occur following the bite of two mosquitoes infected with one virus or to the bite of a mosquito infected with two viruses.\n\n Co-infections in mosquitoes have never been demonstrated in the field or in the laboratory.\n\n Thus, we question about the ability of a mosquito to deliver infectious particles of two different viruses through the female saliva.\n\n\nMethodology/Principal Findings\nWe orally exposed Ae.\n\n albopictus from La Reunion Island with DENV-1 and CHIKV isolated respectively during the 2004–2005 and the 2005–2006 outbreaks on this same island.\n\n We were able to show that Ae.\n\n albopictus could disseminate both viruses and deliver both infectious viral particles concomitantly in its saliva.\n\n We also succeeded in inducing a secondary infection with CHIKV in mosquitoes previously inoculated with DENV-1.\nConclusions/Significance\nIn this study, we underline the ability of Ae.\n\n albopictus to be orally co-infected with two different arboviruses and furthermore, its capacity to deliver concomitantly infectious particles of CHIKV and DENV in saliva.\n\n This finding is of particular concern as Ae.\n\n albopictus is still expanding its geographical range in the tropical as well as in the temperate regions.\n\n Further studies are needed to try to elucidate the molecular/cellular basis of this phenomenon.\n\n\n","id":"PMC2882319","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Public Library of Science","authors":[{"firstname":"Marie","surname":"Vazeille","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Laurence","surname":"Mousson","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Estelle","surname":"Martin","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Anna-Bella","surname":"Failloux","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ann M.","surname":"Powers","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ann M.","surname":"Powers","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1186/s13071-015-0667-y","date":"2015-01-16","title":"Sindbis virus interferes with dengue 4 virus replication and its potential transmission by A<italic>edes albopictus</italic>","abstract":"Background\nMosquitoes transmit a number of arboviruses associated with disease outbreaks in humans and other animals.\n\n The majority of medically important arboviruses belong to three families: Togaviridae, Flaviviridae and Bunyaviridae.\n\n Several members of these families have overlapping distributions and share common vectors, increasing the potential for arboviral coinfections.\n\n This study examined how two model viruses: Sindbis virus (SINV, Togaviridae: Alphavirus) and dengue-4 virus (DENV-4, Flaviviridae: Flavivirus) may interact in C6/36 Aedes albopictus cells and in the mosquito vector Ae.\n\n albopictus.\n\n\nMethods\nC6/36 cells were coinfected, superinfected, or singly infected with SINV and DENV-4 and the two viruses quantified at different time points.\n\n Four to seven day old adult females of Ae.\n\n albopictus were also fed blood containing one or both viruses and viral infection and dissemination rates determined.\n\n\nResults\nSindbis virus suppressed replication of DENV-4 in C6/36 Ae.\n\n albopictus cells with greater inhibition occurring when the two arboviruses were inoculated simultaneously compared to sequentially.\n\n In addition, Ae.\n\n albopictus simultaneously exposed to both arboviruses had significantly lower DENV-4 infection and population dissemination rates compared to those exposed to DENV-4 alone.\n\n\nConclusion\nThese results suggest that certain Alphaviruses may interfere with DENV-4 transmission by suppressing its replication and increasing vector refractoriness.\n\n The findings provide important insights into the potential contribution of mixed arboviral infections to DENV transmission dynamics.\n\n\n","id":"PMC4316403","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"BioMed Central","authors":[{"firstname":"Ephantus J","surname":"Muturi","email":"ephajumu@yahoo.com","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jeffrey","surname":"Bara","email":"jjbara@illinois.edu","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.1093/jme/tjv017","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Evaluation of simultaneous transmission of chikungunya virus and dengue virus type 2 in infected Aedes aegypti and Aedes albopictus (Diptera: Culicidae)","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.2807/1560-7917.ES.2016.21.18.30223","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Experimental studies of susceptibility of Italian Aedes albopictus to Zika virus","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Laboratory strains of Aedes aegypti are competent to brazilian Zika virus","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1038/emi.2017.59","date":"2017-06-04","title":"Zika virus replication in the mosquito <italic>Culex quinquefasciatus</italic> in Brazil","abstract":"Zika virus (ZIKV) is a flavivirus that has recently been associated with an increased incidence of neonatal microcephaly and other neurological disorders.\n The virus is primarily transmitted by mosquito bite, although other routes of infection have been implicated in some cases.\n The Aedes aegypti mosquito is considered to be the main vector to humans worldwide; however, there is evidence that other mosquito species, including Culex quinquefasciatus, transmit the virus.\n To test the potential of Cx.\n quinquefasciatus to transmit ZIKV, we experimentally compared the vector competence of laboratory-reared Ae.\n aegypti and Cx.\n quinquefasciatus.\n Interestingly, we were able to detect the presence of ZIKV in the midgut, salivary glands and saliva of artificially fed Cx.\n quinquefasciatus.\n In addition, we collected ZIKV-infected Cx.\n quinquefasciatus from urban areas with high microcephaly incidence in Recife, Brazil.\n Corroborating our experimental data from artificially fed mosquitoes, ZIKV was isolated from field-caught Cx.\n quinquefasciatus, and its genome was partially sequenced.\n Collectively, these findings indicate that there may be a wider range of ZIKV vectors than anticipated.\n","id":"PMC5583667","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Nature Publishing Group","authors":[{"firstname":"Duschinka RD","surname":"Guedes","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Marcelo HS","surname":"Paiva","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Mariana MA","surname":"Donato","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Priscilla P","surname":"Barbosa","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Larissa","surname":"Krokovsky","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Sura W dos S","surname":"Rocha","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Karina LA","surname":"Saraiva","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Mônica M","surname":"Crespo","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Tatiana MT","surname":"Rezende","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Gabriel L","surname":"Wallau","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Rosângela MR","surname":"Barbosa","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Rosângela MR","surname":"Barbosa","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Cláudia MF","surname":"Oliveira","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Maria AV","surname":"Melo-Santos","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Lindomar","surname":"Pena","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Marli T","surname":"Cordeiro","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Marli T","surname":"Cordeiro","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Rafael F de O","surname":"Franca","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"André LS de","surname":"Oliveira","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Christina A","surname":"Peixoto","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Walter S","surname":"Leal","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Constância FJ","surname":"Ayres","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.1038/emi.2016.102","date":"2016-08-08","title":"<italic>Culex pipiens quinquefasciatus</italic>: a potential vector to transmit Zika virus","abstract":"Zika virus (ZIKV) has become a threat to global health since the outbreak in Brazil in 2015. Although ZIKV is generally considered an Aedes-transmitted pathogen, new evidence has shown that parts of the virus closely resemble Culex-transmitted viruses.\n Therefore, it is important to evaluate the competence of Culex species for ZIKV to understand their potential as vectors.\n In this study, female Culex pipiens quinquefasciatus were orally exposed to ZIKV.\n Mosquito midguts, salivary glands and ovaries were tested for ZIKV to measure infection and dissemination at 2, 4, 6, 8, 12, 16 and 18 days post exposure (pe).\n In addition, saliva was collected from mosquitoes after infection and infant mice were bitten by infected mosquitoes to measure the transmission ability of Cx.\n p.\n quinquefasciatus.\n The results showed that the peak time of virus appearance in the salivary glands was day 8 pe, with 90% infection rate and an estimated virus titer of 3.92±0.49 lg RNA copies/mL.\n Eight of the nine infant mice had positive brains after being bitten by infected mosquitoes, which meant that Cx.\n p.\n quinquefasciatus could be infected with and transmit ZIKV following oral infection.\n These laboratory results clearly demonstrate the potential role of Cx.\n p.\n quinquefasciatus as a vector of ZIKV in China.\n Because there are quite different vector management strategies required to control Aedes (Stegomyia) species and Cx.\n p.\n quinquefasciatus, an integrated approach may be required should a Zika epidemic occur.\n","id":"PMC5113053","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Nature Publishing Group","authors":[{"firstname":"Xiao-xia","surname":"Guo","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Chun-xiao","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Yong-qiang","surname":"Deng","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Dan","surname":"Xing","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Qin-mei","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Qun","surname":"Wu","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ai-juan","surname":"Sun","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Yan-de","surname":"Dong","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Wu-chun","surname":"Cao","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Cheng-feng","surname":"Qin","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Tong-yan","surname":"Zhao","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.1371/journal.pntd.0004993","date":"2016-08-19","title":"<italic>Culex quinquefasciatus</italic> from Rio de Janeiro Is Not Competent to Transmit the Local Zika Virus","abstract":"Background\nThe Americas have suffered a dramatic epidemic of Zika since May in 2015, when Zika virus (ZIKV) was first detected in Brazil.\n\n Mosquitoes belonging to subgenus Stegomyia of Aedes, particularly Aedes aegypti, are considered the primary vectors of ZIKV.\n\n However, the rapid spread of the virus across the continent raised several concerns about the transmission dynamics, especially about potential mosquito vectors.\n\n The purpose of this work was to assess the vector competence of the house mosquito Culex quinquefasciatus from an epidemic Zika area, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, for local circulating ZIKV isolates.\n\n\nMethodology/Principal Findings\nCulex quinquefasciatus and Ae.\n\n aegypti (positive control of ZIKV infection) from Rio de Janeiro were orally exposed to two ZIKV strains isolated from human cases from Rio de Janeiro (Rio-U1 and Rio-S1).\n\n Fully engorged mosquitoes were held in incubators at 26?±?1°C, 12 h:12 h light:dark cycle and 70?±?10% humidity.\n\n For each combination mosquito population—ZIKV strain, 30 specimens were examined for infection, dissemination and transmission rates, at 7, 14 and 21 days after virus exposure by analyzing body (thorax plus abdomen), head and saliva respectively.\n\n Infection rates were minimal to completely absent in all Cx.\n\n quinquefasciatus-virus combinations and were significantly high for Ae.\n\n aegypti.\n\n Moreover, dissemination and transmission were not detected in any Cx.\n\n quinquefasciatus mosquitoes whatever the incubation period and the ZIKV isolate.\n\n In contrast, Ae.\n\n aegypti ensured high viral dissemination and moderate to very high transmission.\n\n\nConclusions/Significance\nThe southern house mosquito Cx.\n\n quinquefasciatus from Rio de Janeiro was not competent to transmit local strains of ZIKV.\n\n Thus, there is no experimental evidence that Cx.\n\n quinquefasciatus likely plays a role in the ZIKV transmission.\n\n Consequently, at least in Rio, mosquito control to reduce ZIKV transmission should remain focused on Ae.\n\n aegypti.\n\n\n","id":"PMC5012671","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Public Library of Science","authors":[{"firstname":"Rosilainy Surubi","surname":"Fernandes","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Stéphanie Silva","surname":"Campos","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Anielly","surname":"Ferreira-de-Brito","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Rafaella Moraes","surname":"de Miranda","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Keli Antunes","surname":"Barbosa da Silva","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Marcia Gonçalves","surname":"de Castro","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Lidiane M. S.","surname":"Raphael","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Patrícia","surname":"Brasil","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Anna-Bella","surname":"Failloux","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Myrna C.","surname":"Bonaldo","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ricardo","surname":"Lourenço-de-Oliveira","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Philip M.","surname":"Armstrong","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Philip M.","surname":"Armstrong","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1089/vbz.2016.2058","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Culex species mosquitoes and Zika virus","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.2807/1560-7917.ES.2016.21.35.30333","date":"2016-09-01","title":"\n<italic>Culex</italic> mosquitoes are experimentally unable to transmit Zika virus","abstract":"We report that two laboratory colonies of Culex quinquefasciatus and Culex pipiens mosquitoes were experimentally unable to transmit ZIKV either up to 21 days post an infectious blood meal or up to 14 days post intrathoracic inoculation.\n Infectious viral particles were detected in bodies, heads or saliva by a plaque forming unit assay on Vero cells.\n We therefore consider it unlikely that Culex mosquitoes are involved in the rapid spread of ZIKV.\n","id":"PMC5015461","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC)","authors":[{"firstname":"Fadila","surname":"Amraoui","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Célestine","surname":"Atyame-Nten","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Anubis","surname":"Vega-Rúa","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ricardo","surname":"Lourenço-de-Oliveira","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Marie","surname":"Vazeille","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Anna Bella","surname":"Failloux","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.1371/journal.pntd.0004959","date":"2016-08-08","title":"Assessment of Local Mosquito Species Incriminates <italic>Aedes aegypti</italic> as the Potential Vector of Zika Virus in Australia","abstract":"Background\nWithin the last 10 years Zika virus (ZIKV) has caused unprecedented epidemics of human disease in the nations and territories of the western Pacific and South America, and continues to escalate in both endemic and non-endemic regions.\n\n We evaluated the vector competence of Australian mosquitoes for ZIKV to assess their potential role in virus transmission.\n\n\nMethodology/Principal Findings\nMosquitoes were exposed to infectious blood meals containing the prototype African ZIKV strain.\n\n After 14 days incubation at 28°C and high relative humidity, infection, dissemination and transmission rates were assessed.\n\n Infection in Culex annulirostris and Cx.\n\n sitiens could not be detected.\n\n 8% of Cx.\n\n quinquefasciatus were infected, but the virus did not disseminate in this species.\n\n Despite having infection rates &gt; 50%, Aedes notoscriptus and Ae.\n\n vigilax did not transmit ZIKV.\n\n In contrast, Ae.\n\n aegypti had infection and transmission rates of 57% and 27%, respectively.\n\n In susceptibility trials, the virus dose required to infect 50% (ID50) of Ae.\n\n aegypti was106.4 tissue culture infectious dose50 (TCID50)/mL.\n\n Additionally, a threshold viral load within the mosquito of at least 105.1 TCID50 equivalents/mL had to be reached before virus transmission occurred.\n\n\nConclusions/Significance\nWe confirmed Ae.\n\n aegypti to be the most likely mosquito vector of ZIKV in Australia, although the restricted distribution of this species will limit the receptive zone to northern Queensland where this species occurs.\n\n Importantly, the role in ZIKV transmission of Culex and other Aedes spp.\n\n tested will be negligible.\n\n Despite being the implicated vector, the relatively high ID50 and need for a high titer disseminated infection in Ae.\n\n aegypti suggest that high mosquito population densities will be required to facilitate epidemic ZIKV transmission among the currently immunologically naïve human population in Australia.\n\n\n","id":"PMC5028067","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Public Library of Science","authors":[{"firstname":"Sonja","surname":"Hall-Mendelin","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Alyssa T.","surname":"Pyke","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Peter R.","surname":"Moore","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ian M.","surname":"Mackay","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jamie L.","surname":"McMahon","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Scott A.","surname":"Ritchie","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Carmel T.","surname":"Taylor","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Frederick A.J.","surname":"Moore","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Andrew F.","surname":"van den Hurk","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Paulo Filemon","surname":"Pimenta","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Paulo Filemon","surname":"Pimenta","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1038/emi.2017.85","date":"2017-09-19","title":"Lack of evidence for Zika virus transmission by <italic>Culex</italic> mosquitoes","abstract":"","id":"PMC5658773","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Nature Publishing Group","authors":[{"firstname":"Christopher M","surname":"Roundy","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Sasha R","surname":"Azar","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Aaron C","surname":"Brault","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Gregory D","surname":"Ebel","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Anna-Bella","surname":"Failloux","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ildefonso","surname":"Fernandez-Salas","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Uriel","surname":"Kitron","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Laura D","surname":"Kramer","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ricardo","surname":"Lourenço-de-Oliveira","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jorge E","surname":"Osorio","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Igor D","surname":"Paploski","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Gonzalo M","surname":"Vazquez-Prokopec","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Guilherme S","surname":"Ribeiro","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Guilherme S","surname":"Ribeiro","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Scott A","surname":"Ritchie","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Laura B","surname":"Tauro","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Nikos","surname":"Vasilakis","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Scott C","surname":"Weaver","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.1038/emi.2017.86","date":"2017-09-19","title":"Response to: ‘Lack of evidence for Zika virus transmission by <italic>Culex</italic> mosquitoes’","abstract":"","id":"PMC5658774","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Nature Publishing Group","authors":[{"firstname":"Constância","surname":"Ayres","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Duschinka","surname":"Guedes","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Marcelo","surname":"Paiva","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Mariana","surname":"Donato","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Priscilla","surname":"Barbosa","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Priscilla","surname":"Barbosa","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Larissa","surname":"Krokovsky","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Sura","surname":"Rocha","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Karina","surname":"Saraiva","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Mônica","surname":"Crespo","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Tatiana","surname":"Rezende","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Gabriel","surname":"Wallau","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Rosângela","surname":"Barbosa","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Cláudia","surname":"Oliveira","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Maria Alice","surname":"Melo-Santos","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Lindomar","surname":"Pena","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Marli","surname":"Cordeiro","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Marli","surname":"Cordeiro","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Rafael","surname":"Franca","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"André","surname":"Oliveira","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Christina","surname":"Peixoto","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Walter S","surname":"Leal","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1371/journal.pone.0109442","date":"2014-09-04","title":"Zika Virus Emergence in Mosquitoes in Southeastern Senegal, 2011","abstract":"Background\nZika virus (ZIKV; genus Flavivirus, family Flaviviridae) is maintained in a zoonotic cycle between arboreal Aedes spp.\n\n mosquitoes and nonhuman primates in African and Asian forests.\n\n Spillover into humans has been documented in both regions and the virus is currently responsible for a large outbreak in French Polynesia.\n\n ZIKV amplifications are frequent in southeastern Senegal but little is known about their seasonal and spatial dynamics.\n\n The aim of this paper is to describe the spatio-temporal patterns of the 2011 ZIKV amplification in southeastern Senegal.\n\n\nMethodology/Findings\nMosquitoes were collected monthly from April to December 2011 except during July.\n\n Each evening from 18?00 to 21?00 hrs landing collections were performed by teams of 3 persons working simultaneously in forest (canopy and ground), savannah, agriculture, village (indoor and outdoor) and barren land cover sites.\n\n Mosquitoes were tested for virus infection by virus isolation and RT-PCR.\n\n ZIKV was detected in 31 of the 1,700 mosquito pools (11,247 mosquitoes) tested: Ae.\n\n furcifer (5), Ae.\n\n luteocephalus (5), Ae.\n\n africanus (5), Ae.\n\n vittatus (3), Ae.\n\n taylori, Ae.\n\n dalzieli, Ae.\n\n hirsutus and Ae.\n\n metallicus (2 each) and Ae.\n\n aegypti, Ae.\n\n unilinaetus, Ma.\n\n uniformis, Cx.\n\n perfuscus and An.\n\n coustani (1 pool each) collected in June (3), September (10), October (11), November (6) and December (1).\n\n ZIKV was detected from mosquitoes collected in all land cover classes except indoor locations within villages.\n\n The virus was detected in only one of the ten villages investigated.\n\n\nConclusions/Significance\nThis ZIKV amplification was widespread in the Kédougou area, involved several mosquito species as probable vectors, and encompassed all investigated land cover classes except indoor locations within villages.\n\n Aedes furcifer males and Aedes vittatus were found infected within a village, thus these species are probably involved in the transmission of Zika virus to humans in this environment.\n\n\n","id":"PMC4195678","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Public Library of Science","authors":[{"firstname":"Diawo","surname":"Diallo","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Amadou A.","surname":"Sall","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Cheikh T.","surname":"Diagne","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Oumar","surname":"Faye","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ousmane","surname":"Faye","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yamar","surname":"Ba","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Kathryn A.","surname":"Hanley","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Michaela","surname":"Buenemann","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Scott C.","surname":"Weaver","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Mawlouth","surname":"Diallo","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Houssam","surname":"Attoui","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Houssam","surname":"Attoui","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1371/journal.pntd.0005055","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Potential for Zika Virus to Establish a Sylvatic Transmission Cycle in the Americas","abstract":"Zika virus (ZIKV) originated and continues to circulate in a sylvatic transmission cycle between non-human primate hosts and arboreal mosquitoes in tropical Africa.\n Recently ZIKV invaded the Americas, where it poses a threat to human health, especially to pregnant women and their infants.\n Here we examine the risk that ZIKV will establish a sylvatic cycle in the Americas, focusing on Brazil.\n We review the natural history of sylvatic ZIKV and present a mathematical dynamic transmission model to assess the probability of establishment of a sylvatic ZIKV transmission cycle in non-human primates and/or other mammals and arboreal mosquito vectors in Brazil.\n Brazil is home to multiple species of primates and mosquitoes potentially capable of ZIKV transmission, though direct assessment of host competence (ability to mount viremia sufficient to infect a feeding mosquito) and vector competence (ability to become infected with ZIKV and disseminate and transmit upon subsequent feedings) of New World species is lacking.\n Modeling reveals a high probability of establishment of sylvatic ZIKV across a large range of biologically plausible parameters.\n Probability of establishment is dependent on host and vector population sizes, host birthrates, and ZIKV force of infection.\n Research on the host competence of New World monkeys or other small mammals to ZIKV, on vector competence of New World Aedes, Sabethes, and Haemagogus mosquitoes for ZIKV, and on the geographic range of potential New World hosts and vectors is urgently needed.\n A sylvatic cycle of ZIKV would make future elimination efforts in the Americas practically impossible, and paints a dire picture for the epidemiology of ZIKV and our ability to end the ongoing outbreak of congenital Zika syndrome.\n","id":"PMC5157942","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Public Library of Science","authors":[{"firstname":"Benjamin M.","surname":"Althouse","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Nikos","surname":"Vasilakis","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Amadou A.","surname":"Sall","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Mawlouth","surname":"Diallo","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Scott C.","surname":"Weaver","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Kathryn A.","surname":"Hanley","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Isolements d'arbovirus au Senegal oriental apartir de moustiques (1972-1977) et notes sur l'epidemiologie des virus transmis par les Aedes, en particulier du virus amaril","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1101/049395","date":"1970-01-01","title":"First detection of Zika virus in neotropical primates in Brazil: A possible new reservoir","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/j.ijid.2016.05.014","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Zika virus, vectors, reservoirs, amplifying hosts, and their potential to spread worldwide: What we know and what we should investigate urgently","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/S0140-6736(15)61273-9","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Zika virus: Following the path of dengue and chikungunya?","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.3201/eid2301.161394","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Prolonged Detection of Zika Virus in Vaginal Secretions and Whole Blood","abstract":"Infection with Zika virus is an emerging public health crisis.\n We observed prolonged detection of virus RNA in vaginal mucosal swab specimens and whole blood for a US traveler with acute Zika virus infection who had visited Honduras.\n These findings advance understanding of Zika virus infection and provide data for additional testing strategies.\n","id":"PMC5176245","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Centers for Disease Control and Prevention","authors":[{"firstname":"Kristy O.","surname":"Murray","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Rodion","surname":"Gorchakov","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Anna R.","surname":"Carlson","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Rebecca","surname":"Berry","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Lilin","surname":"Lai","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Muktha","surname":"Natrajan","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Melissa N.","surname":"Garcia","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Armando","surname":"Correa","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Shital M.","surname":"Patel","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Kjersti","surname":"Aagaard","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Mark J.","surname":"Mulligan","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.1016/S0140-6736(17)31450-2","date":"1970-01-01","title":"An update on Zika virus infection","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1056/NEJMoa1613108","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Persistence of Zika virus in body fluids:Preliminary report","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/j.ijid.2017.01.042","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Zika virus shedding in human milk during lactation: An unlikely source of infection?","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.3201/eid2305.161538","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Persistence of Zika Virus in Breast Milk after Infection in Late Stage of Pregnancy","abstract":"We detected Zika virus in breast milk of a woman in Brazil infected with the virus during the 36th week of pregnancy.\n Virus was detected 33 days after onset of signs and symptoms and 9 days after delivery.\n No abnormalities were found during fetal assessment or after birth of the infant.\n","id":"PMC5403055","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Centers for Disease Control and Prevention","authors":[{"firstname":"José R.","surname":"Sotelo","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Andre B.","surname":"Sotelo","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Fabio J.B.","surname":"Sotelo","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"André M.","surname":"Doi","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Joao R.R.","surname":"Pinho","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Rita de Cassia","surname":"Oliveira","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Alanna M.P.S.","surname":"Bezerra","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Alice D.","surname":"Deutsch","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Lucy S.","surname":"Villas-Boas","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Alvina C.","surname":"Felix","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Camila M.","surname":"Romano","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Clarisse M.","surname":"Machado","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Maria C.J.","surname":"Mendes-Correa","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Rubia A.F.","surname":"Santana","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Fernando G.","surname":"Menezes","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Cristovao L.P.","surname":"Mangueira","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.1542/peds.2016-0621","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Zika virus disease: A CDC update for pediatric health care providers","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1056/NEJMc1607262","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Evidence for transmission of Zika virus by platelet transfusion","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.2807/1560-7917.ES2014.19.9.20720","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Zika virus infection complicated by Guillain-Barre syndrome:Case report, French Polynesia, December 2013","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1590/0074-02760160510","date":"2017-02-20","title":"Zika puzzle in Brazil: peculiar conditions of viral introduction and dissemination - A Review","abstract":"This article discusses the peculiar conditions that favoured the unexpected introduction of Zika virus into the poorest northeastern region of Brazil in 2015, its speed of transmission to other Brazilian states, other Latin American countries and other regions, and the severity of related neurological disorders in newborns and adults.\n Contrasting with evidence that Zika had so far caused only mild cases in humans in the last six decades, the epidemiological scenario of this outbreak in Brazil indicates dramatic health effects: in 2015, an increase of 20-fold in notified cases of microcephaly and/or central nervous system (CNS) alterations suggestive of Zika congenital infection, followed by an exponential increase in 2016, with 2366 cumulative cases confirmed in the country by the end of December 2016. A significant increase in Guillain-Barré syndrome in adults has also been reported.\n Factors involved in viral dissemination, neural pathogenesis and routes of transmission in Brazil are examined, such as the role of social and environmental factors and the controversies involved in the hypothesis of antibody-dependent enhancement, to explain the incidence of congenital Zika syndrome in Brazil.\n Responses to the Zika outbreak and the development of new products are also discussed.\n","id":"PMC5398166","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Instituto Oswaldo Cruz, Ministério da Saúde","authors":[{"firstname":"Cristina","surname":"Possas","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Patricia","surname":"Brasil","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Mauro CA","surname":"Marzochi","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Amilcar","surname":"Tanuri","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Reinaldo M","surname":"Martins","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ernesto TA","surname":"Marques","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Myrna C","surname":"Bonaldo","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Antonio GP","surname":"Ferreira","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ricardo","surname":"Lourenço-de-Oliveira","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Rita Maria R","surname":"Nogueira","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Patricia C","surname":"Sequeira","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Keyla BF","surname":"Marzochi","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Akira","surname":"Homma","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Congenital Zika Syndrome &amp; Other Birth Defects","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1056/NEJMoa1600651","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Zika virus associated with microcephaly","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1056/NEJMoa1602412","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Zika virus infection in pregnant women in Rio de Janeiro","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/S1473-3099(16)30318-8","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Association between Zika virus infection and microcephaly in Brazil, January to May, 2016: Preliminary report of a case-control study","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1126/science.aam7120","date":"1970-01-01","title":"A single mutation in the prM protein of Zika virus contributes to fetal microcephaly","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1056/NEJMsr1604338","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Zika virus and birth defects:Reviewing the evidence for causality","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1056/NEJMp1602708","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Zika virus as a cause of neurologic disorders","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.15585/mmwr.mm6623e1","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Pregnancy Outcomes After Maternal Zika Virus Infection During Pregnancy — U.S. Territories, January 1, 2016–April 25, 2017","abstract":"","id":"PMC5657842","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Centers for Disease Control and Prevention","authors":[{"firstname":"Carrie K.","surname":"Shapiro-Mendoza","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Marion E.","surname":"Rice","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Romeo R.","surname":"Galang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Anna C.","surname":"Fulton","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Kelley","surname":"VanMaldeghem","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Miguel Valencia","surname":"Prado","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Esther","surname":"Ellis","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Magele Scott","surname":"Anesi","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Regina M.","surname":"Simeone","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Emily E.","surname":"Petersen","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Sascha R.","surname":"Ellington","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Abbey M.","surname":"Jones","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Tonya","surname":"Williams","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Sarah","surname":"Reagan-Steiner","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Janice","surname":"Perez-Padilla","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Carmen C.","surname":"Deseda","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Andrew","surname":"Beron","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Aifili John","surname":"Tufa","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Asher","surname":"Rosinger","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Nicole M.","surname":"Roth","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Caitlin","surname":"Green","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Stacey","surname":"Martin","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Camille Delgado","surname":"Lopez","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Leah","surname":"deWilde","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Mary","surname":"Goodwin","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"H. Pamela","surname":"Pagano","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Cara T.","surname":"Mai","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Carolyn","surname":"Gould","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Sherif","surname":"Zaki","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Leishla Nieves","surname":"Ferrer","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Michelle S.","surname":"Davis","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Eva","surname":"Lathrop","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Kara","surname":"Polen","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Janet D.","surname":"Cragan","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Megan","surname":"Reynolds","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Kimberly B.","surname":"Newsome","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Mariam Marcano","surname":"Huertas","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Julu","surname":"Bhatangar","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Alma Martinez","surname":"Quiñones","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"John F.","surname":"Nahabedian","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Laura","surname":"Adams","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Tyler M.","surname":"Sharp","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"W. Thane","surname":"Hancock","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Sonja A.","surname":"Rasmussen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Cynthia A.","surname":"Moore","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Denise J.","surname":"Jamieson","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jorge L.","surname":"Munoz-Jordan","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Helentina","surname":"Garstang","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Afeke","surname":"Kambui","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Carolee","surname":"Masao","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Margaret A.","surname":"Honein","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Dana","surname":"Meaney-Delman","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"NULL","surname":"NULL","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"NULL","surname":"NULL","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"NULL","surname":"NULL","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Adriana","surname":"Rico","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Alba","surname":"Phippard","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Alexis B.","surname":"Peterson","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ana","surname":"Pomales","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Annelise C.","surname":"Arth","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"April","surname":"Dawson","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Araceli","surname":"Rey","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Argelia","surname":"Figueroa","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Audilis","surname":"Sanchez","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Brittany","surname":"Robinson","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Daniel B.","surname":"Williams","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Deborah L.","surname":"Dee","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Divia P.","surname":"Forbes","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Elizabeth C.","surname":"Ailes","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Frances","surname":"Marrero","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Gamola Z.","surname":"Fortenberry","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Hilda","surname":"Razzaghi","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jean Y.","surname":"Ko","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jennifer N.","surname":"Lind","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Kenneth Lee","surname":"Dominguez","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Kristie","surname":"Clarke","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Maria","surname":"Flores","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Matthew S.","surname":"Biggerstaff","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Melissa","surname":"Danielson","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Monica","surname":"Molina","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Nicholas J.","surname":"Somerville","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Rachel","surname":"Blumenfeld","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Raegan A.","surname":"Tuff","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Rebecca J.","surname":"Free","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Sae-Rom","surname":"Chae","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Sara","surname":"Andrist","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Shin Y.","surname":"Kim","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Tanya L.","surname":"Williams","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Theresa A.","surname":"Harrington","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Tracy","surname":"Thomason","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Vikram","surname":"Krishnasamy","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.1590/S0074-02762012000600021","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Why do we need alternative tools to control mosquito-borne diseases in Latin America?","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.3390/insects8010021","date":"2017-01-21","title":"Biological Control Strategies for Mosquito Vectors of Arboviruses","abstract":"Historically, biological control utilizes predatory species and pathogenic microorganisms to reduce the population of mosquitoes as disease vectors.\n This is particularly important for the control of mosquito-borne arboviruses, which normally do not have specific antiviral therapies available.\n Although development of resistance is likely, the advantages of biological control are that the resources used are typically biodegradable and ecologically friendly.\n Over the past decade, the advancement of molecular biology has enabled optimization by the manipulation of genetic materials associated with biological control agents.\n Two significant advancements are the discovery of cytoplasmic incompatibility induced by Wolbachia bacteria, which has enhanced replacement programs, and the introduction of dominant lethal genes into local mosquito populations through the release of genetically modified mosquitoes.\n As various arboviruses continue to be significant public health threats, biological control strategies have evolved to be more diverse and become critical tools to reduce the disease burden of arboviruses.\n","id":"PMC5371949","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"MDPI","authors":[{"firstname":"Yan-Jang S.","surname":"Huang","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Stephen","surname":"Higgs","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Dana L.","surname":"Vanlandingham","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Walter J.","surname":"Tabachnick","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Walter J.","surname":"Tabachnick","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1371/journal.pntd.0003475","date":"2014-12-14","title":"Surveillance of <italic>Aedes aegypti</italic>: Comparison of House Index with Four Alternative Traps","abstract":"Introduction\nThe mosquito Aedes aegypti, vector of dengue, chikungunya and yellow fever viruses, is an important target of vector control programs in tropical countries.\n\n Most mosquito surveillance programs are still based on the traditional household larval surveys, despite the availability of new trapping devices.\n\n We report the results of a multicentric entomological survey using four types of traps, besides the larval survey, to compare the entomological indices generated by these different surveillance tools in terms of their sensitivity to detect mosquito density variation.\n\n\nMethods\nThe study was conducted in five mid-sized cities, representing variations of tropical climate regimens.\n\n Surveillance schemes using traps for adults (BG-Sentinel, Adultrap and MosquiTRAP) or eggs (ovitraps) were applied monthly to three 1 km2 areas per city.\n\n Simultaneously, larval surveys were performed.\n\n Trap positivity and density indices in each area were calculated and regressed against meteorological variables to characterize the seasonal pattern of mosquito infestation in all cities, as measured by each of the four traps.\n\n\nResults\nThe House Index was consistently low in most cities, with median always 0. Traps rarely produced null indices, pointing to their greater sensitivity in detecting the presence of Ae.\n\n aegypti in comparison to the larval survey.\n\n Trap positivity indices tend to plateau at high mosquito densities.\n\n Despite this, both indices, positivity and density, agreed on the seasonality of mosquito abundance in all cities.\n\n Mosquito seasonality associated preferentially with temperature than with precipitation even in areas where temperature variation is small.\n\n\nConclusions\nAll investigated traps performed better than the House Index in measuring the seasonal variation in mosquito abundance and should be considered as complements or alternatives to larval surveys.\n\n Choice between traps should further consider differences of cost and ease-of-use.\n\n\n","id":"PMC4323346","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Public Library of Science","authors":[{"firstname":"Claudia T.","surname":"Codeço","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Arthur W. S.","surname":"Lima","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Simone C.","surname":"Araújo","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"José Bento P.","surname":"Lima","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Rafael","surname":"Maciel-de-Freitas","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Nildimar A.","surname":"Honório","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Allan K. R.","surname":"Galardo","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ima A.","surname":"Braga","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Giovanini E.","surname":"Coelho","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Denise","surname":"Valle","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Charles","surname":"Apperson","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Charles","surname":"Apperson","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1371/journal.pntd.0005632","date":"1970-01-01","title":"<italic>Aedes ægypti</italic> control in urban areas: A systemic approach to a complex dynamic","abstract":"The available strategy for controlling the diseases transmitted by Aedes ægypti (dengue fever, Zika, and chikungunya) relies on continued community participation.\n Despite slogans emphasizing how easy it should be, no country has achieved it since the seventies.\n To better investigate potentially sustainable interventions, we developed a systemic model based on a multidisciplinary approach, integrating as deeply as possible specialized knowledge and field experience.\n The resulting model is composed of 4 external and 8 internal subsystems and 31 relationships, consistent with the literature and checked over multiple iterations with specialists of the many areas.\n We analyzed the model and the main feedback loops responsible for the system’s stability, searching for possible interventions that could shift the existing balance.\n We suggest the introduction of 1 more player, the local primary health care structure, with the potential to change the undesired equilibrium.\n The health agents in the areas are the first to detect disease cases, and they could stimulate individuals to inform about potential mosquitoes’ breeding sites and bring timely information to the vector-control program.\n Triggering such an action could introduce changes in people's attitude through a positive feedback loop in the desired direction.\n","id":"PMC5531422","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Public Library of Science","authors":[{"firstname":"Marilia Sá","surname":"Carvalho","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Nildimar Alves","surname":"Honorio","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Nildimar Alves","surname":"Honorio","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Leandro Martin Totaro","surname":"Garcia","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Luiz Carlos de Sá","surname":"Carvalho","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Robert C","surname":"Reiner","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Robert C","surname":"Reiner","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"NULL","surname":"NULL","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"NULL","surname":"NULL","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"NULL","surname":"NULL","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1590/S0102-311X2002000300030","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Aspectos criticos do controle do dengue no Brasil","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1371/journal.pone.0067682","date":"2013-05-20","title":"Sustained Reduction of the Dengue Vector Population Resulting from an Integrated Control Strategy Applied in Two Brazilian Cities","abstract":"\nAedes aegypti has developed evolution-driven adaptations for surviving in the domestic human habitat.\n Several trap models have been designed considering these strategies and tested for monitoring this efficient vector of Dengue.\n Here, we report a real-scale evaluation of a system for monitoring and controlling mosquito populations based on egg sampling coupled with geographic information systems technology.\n The SMCP-Aedes, a system based on open technology and open data standards, was set up from March/2008 to October/2011 as a pilot trial in two sites of Pernambuco -Brazil: Ipojuca (10,000 residents) and Santa Cruz (83,000), in a joint effort of health authorities and staff, and a network of scientists providing scientific support.\n A widespread infestation by Aedes was found in both sites in 2008–2009, with 96.8%–100% trap positivity.\n Egg densities were markedly higher in SCC than in Ipojuca.\n A 90% decrease in egg density was recorded in SCC after two years of sustained control pressure imposed by suppression of &gt;7,500,000 eggs and &gt;3,200 adults, plus larval control by adding fishes to cisterns.\n In Ipojuca, 1.1 million mosquito eggs were suppressed and a 77% reduction in egg density was achieved.\n This study aimed at assessing the applicability of a system using GIS and spatial statistic analysis tools for quantitative assessment of mosquito populations.\n It also provided useful information on the requirements for reducing well-established mosquito populations.\n Results from two cities led us to conclude that the success in markedly reducing an Aedes population required the appropriate choice of control measures for sustained mass elimination guided by a user-friendly mosquito surveillance system.\n The system was able to support interventional decisions and to assess the program’s success.\n Additionally, it created a stimulating environment for health staff and residents, which had a positive impact on their commitment to the dengue control program.\n","id":"PMC3701045","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Public Library of Science","authors":[{"firstname":"Lêda N.","surname":"Regis","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ridelane Veiga","surname":"Acioli","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"José Constantino","surname":"Silveira","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Maria Alice Varjal","surname":"Melo-Santos","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Wayner Vieira","surname":"Souza","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Cândida M. Nogueira.","surname":"Ribeiro","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Juliana C. Serafim.","surname":"da Silva","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Antonio Miguel Vieira","surname":"Monteiro","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Cláudia M. F.","surname":"Oliveira","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Rosângela M. R.","surname":"Barbosa","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Cynthia","surname":"Braga","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Marco Aurélio Benedetti","surname":"Rodrigues","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Marilú Gomes N. M.","surname":"Silva","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Paulo Justiniano","surname":"Ribeiro Jr.","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Wagner Hugo","surname":"Bonat","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Liliam César","surname":"de Castro Medeiros","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Marilia Sa","surname":"Carvalho","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"André Freire","surname":"Furtado","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Pedro Lagerblad","surname":"Oliveira","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Pedro Lagerblad","surname":"Oliveira","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1016/j.actatropica.2013.09.023","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Two step male release strategy using transgenic mosquito lines to control transmission of vector-borne diseases","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.3325/cmj.2012.53.635","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Genetically modified insects as a public health tool: discussing the different bio-objectification within genetic strategies","abstract":"","id":"PMC3541591","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Croatian Medical Schools","authors":[{"firstname":"Luísa","surname":"Reis-Castro","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.1016/j.cell.2009.11.042","date":"1970-01-01","title":"A Wolbachia symbiont in Aedes aegypti limits infection with dengue, chikungunya, and Plasmodium","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1038/nature10356","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Successful establishment of Wolbachia in Aedes populations to suppress dengue transmission","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1371/journal.pntd.0003864","date":"2015-06-01","title":"Suppression of a Field Population of <italic>Aedes aegypti</italic> in Brazil by Sustained Release of Transgenic Male Mosquitoes","abstract":"The increasing burden of dengue, and the relative failure of traditional vector control programs highlight the need to develop new control methods.\n SIT using self-limiting genetic technology is one such promising method.\n A self-limiting strain of Aedes aegypti, OX513A, has already reached the stage of field evaluation.\n Sustained releases of OX513A Ae.\n aegypti males led to 80% suppression of a target wild Ae.\n aegypti population in the Cayman Islands in 2010. Here we describe sustained series of field releases of OX513A Ae.\n aegypti males in a suburb of Juazeiro, Bahia, Brazil.\n This study spanned over a year and reduced the local Ae.\n aegypti population by 95% (95% CI: 92.2%-97.5%) based on adult trap data and 81% (95% CI: 74.9-85.2%) based on ovitrap indices compared to the adjacent no-release control area.\n The mating competitiveness of the released males (0.031; 95% CI: 0.025-0.036) was similar to that estimated in the Cayman trials (0.059; 95% CI: 0.011 – 0.210), indicating that environmental and target-strain differences had little impact on the mating success of the OX513A males.\n We conclude that sustained release of OX513A males may be an effective and widely useful method for suppression of the key dengue vector Ae.\n aegypti.\n The observed level of suppression would likely be sufficient to prevent dengue epidemics in the locality tested and other areas with similar or lower transmission.\n","id":"PMC4489809","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Public Library of Science","authors":[{"firstname":"Danilo O.","surname":"Carvalho","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Andrew R.","surname":"McKemey","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Luiza","surname":"Garziera","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Renaud","surname":"Lacroix","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Christl A.","surname":"Donnelly","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Luke","surname":"Alphey","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Aldo","surname":"Malavasi","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Margareth L.","surname":"Capurro","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ken E.","surname":"Olson","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Ken E.","surname":"Olson","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1371/journal.pntd.0003702","date":"2015-03-13","title":"Mosquito-Disseminated Pyriproxyfen Yields High Breeding-Site Coverage and Boosts Juvenile Mosquito Mortality at the Neighborhood Scale","abstract":"Background\nMosquito-borne pathogens pose major public health challenges worldwide.\n\n With vaccines or effective drugs still unavailable for most such pathogens, disease prevention heavily relies on vector control.\n\n To date, however, mosquito control has proven difficult, with low breeding-site coverage during control campaigns identified as a major drawback.\n\n A novel tactic exploits the egg-laying behavior of mosquitoes to have them disseminate tiny particles of a potent larvicide, pyriproxyfen (PPF), from resting to breeding sites, thus improving coverage.\n\n This approach has yielded promising results at small spatial scales, but its wider applicability remains unclear.\n\n\nMethodology/Principal Findings\nWe conducted a four-month trial within a 20-month study to investigate mosquito-driven dissemination of PPF dust-particles from 100 ‘dissemination stations’ (DSs) deployed in a 7-ha sub-area to surveillance dwellings and sentinel breeding sites (SBSs) distributed over an urban neighborhood of about 50 ha.\n\n We assessed the impact of the trial by measuring juvenile mosquito mortality and adult mosquito emergence in each SBS-month.\n\n Using data from 1,075 dwelling-months, 2,988 SBS-months, and 29,922 individual mosquitoes, we show that mosquito-disseminated PPF yielded high coverage of dwellings (up to 100%) and SBSs (up to 94.3%).\n\n Juvenile mosquito mortality in SBSs (about 4% at baseline) increased by over one order of magnitude during PPF dissemination (about 75%).\n\n This led to a &gt;10-fold decrease of adult mosquito emergence from SBSs, from approximately 1,000–3,000 adults/month before to about 100 adults/month during PPF dissemination.\n\n\nConclusions/Significance\nBy expanding breeding-site coverage and boosting juvenile mosquito mortality, a strategy based on mosquito-disseminated PPF has potential to substantially enhance mosquito control.\n\n Sharp declines in adult mosquito emergence can lower vector/host ratios, reducing the risk of disease outbreaks.\n\n This approach is a very promising complement to current and novel mosquito control strategies; it will probably be especially relevant for the control of urban disease vectors, such as Aedes and Culex species, that often cause large epidemics.\n\n\n","id":"PMC4388722","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Public Library of Science","authors":[{"firstname":"Fernando","surname":"Abad-Franch","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Elvira","surname":"Zamora-Perea","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Gonçalo","surname":"Ferraz","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Samael D.","surname":"Padilla-Torres","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Sérgio L. B.","surname":"Luz","email":"NULL","contributions":"3"},{"firstname":"Audrey","surname":"Lenhart","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Audrey","surname":"Lenhart","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1371/journal.pmed.1002213","date":"2016-11-30","title":"Mosquito-Disseminated Insecticide for Citywide Vector Control and Its Potential to Block Arbovirus Epidemics: Entomological Observations and Modeling Results from Amazonian Brazil","abstract":"Background\nMosquito-borne viruses threaten public health worldwide.\n\n When the ratio of competent vectors to susceptible humans is low enough, the virus’s basic reproductive number (R0) falls below 1.0 (each case generating, on average, &lt;1.0 additional case) and the infection fades out from the population.\n\n Conventional mosquito control tactics, however, seldom yield R0 &lt; 1.0. A promising alternative uses mosquitoes to disseminate a potent growth-regulator larvicide, pyriproxyfen (PPF), to aquatic larval habitats; this kills most mosquito juveniles and substantially reduces adult mosquito emergence.\n\n We tested mosquito-disseminated PPF in Manacapuru, a 60,000-inhabitant city (~650 ha) in Amazonian Brazil.\n\n\nMethods and Findings\nWe sampled juvenile mosquitoes monthly in 100 dwellings over four periods in February 2014–January 2016: 12 baseline months, 5 mo of citywide PPF dissemination, 3 mo of focal PPF dissemination around Aedes-infested dwellings, and 3 mo after dissemination ended.\n\n We caught 19,434 juvenile mosquitoes (66% Aedes albopictus, 28% Ae.\n\n aegypti) in 8,271 trap-months.\n\n Using generalized linear mixed models, we estimated intervention effects on juvenile catch and adult emergence while adjusting for dwelling-level clustering, unequal sampling effort, and weather-related confounders.\n\n Following PPF dissemination, Aedes juvenile catch decreased by 79%–92% and juvenile mortality increased from 2%–7% to 80%–90%.\n\n Mean adult Aedes emergence fell from 1,077 per month (range 653–1,635) at baseline to 50.4 per month during PPF dissemination (range 2–117).\n\n Female Aedes emergence dropped by 96%–98%, such that the number of females emerging per person decreased to 0.06 females per person-month (range 0.002–0.129).\n\n Deterministic models predict, under plausible biological-epidemiological scenarios, that the R0 of typical Aedes-borne viruses would fall from 3–45 at baseline to 0.004–0.06 during PPF dissemination.\n\n The main limitations of our study were that it was a before–after trial lacking truly independent replicates and that we did not measure mosquito-borne virus transmission empirically.\n\n\nConclusions\nMosquito-disseminated PPF has potential to block mosquito-borne virus transmission citywide, even under adverse scenarios.\n\n Our results signal new avenues for mosquito-borne disease prevention, likely including the effective control of Aedes-borne dengue, Zika, and chikungunya epidemics.\n\n Cluster-randomized controlled trials will help determine whether mosquito-disseminated PPF can, as our findings suggest, develop into a major tool for improving global public health.\n\n\n","id":"PMC5240929","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Public Library of Science","authors":[{"firstname":"Fernando","surname":"Abad-Franch","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Elvira","surname":"Zamora-Perea","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Sérgio L. B.","surname":"Luz","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Sérgio L. B.","surname":"Luz","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Lorenz","surname":"von Seidlein","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Lorenz","surname":"von Seidlein","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1073/pnas.1620161114","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Spread of Zika virus in the Americas","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/S0140-6736(16)00080-5","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Anticipating the international spread of Zika virus from Brazil","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1038/nmicrobiol.2016.126","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Model-based projections of Zika virus infections in childbearing women in the Americas","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1126/science.aaf8160","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Assessing the global threat from Zika virus","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1371/journal.pntd.0006007","date":"2017-10-03","title":"After the epidemic: Zika virus projections for Latin America and the Caribbean","abstract":"Background\nZika is one of the most challenging emergent vector-borne diseases, yet its future public health impact remains unclear.\n\n Zika was of little public health concern until recent reports of its association with congenital syndromes.\n\n By 3 August 2017 ?217,000 Zika cases and ?3,400 cases of associated congenital syndrome were reported in Latin America and the Caribbean.\n\n Some modelling exercises suggest that Zika virus infection could become endemic in agreement with recent declarations from the The World Health Organisation.\n\n\nMethodology/Principal findings\nWe produced high-resolution spatially-explicit projections of Zika cases, associated congenital syndromes and monetary costs for Latin America and the Caribbean now that the epidemic phase of the disease appears to be over.\n\n In contrast to previous studies which have adopted a modelling approach to map Zika potential, we project case numbers using a statistical approach based upon reported dengue case data as a Zika surrogate.\n\n Our results indicate that ?12.3 (0.7–162.3) million Zika cases could be expected across Latin America and the Caribbean every year, leading to ?64.4 (0.2–5159.3) thousand cases of Guillain-Barré syndrome and ?4.7 (0.0–116.3) thousand cases of microcephaly.\n\n The economic burden of these neurological sequelae are estimated to be USD ?2.3 (USD 0–159.3) billion per annum.\n\n\nConclusions/Significance\nZika is likely to have significant public health consequences across Latin America and the Caribbean in years to come.\n\n Our projections inform regional and federal health authorities, offering an opportunity to adapt to this public health challenge.\n\n\n","id":"PMC5683651","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Public Library of Science","authors":[{"firstname":"Felipe J.","surname":"Colón-González","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Carlos A.","surname":"Peres","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Carlos A.","surname":"Peres","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Christine","surname":"Steiner São Bernardo","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Paul R.","surname":"Hunter","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Iain R.","surname":"Lake","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Uwem Friday","surname":"Ekpo","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Uwem Friday","surname":"Ekpo","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.3389/fmicb.2017.01291","date":"2017-06-27","title":"Could the Recent Zika Epidemic Have Been Predicted?","abstract":"Given knowledge at the time, the recent 2015–2016 zika virus (ZIKV) epidemic probably could not have been predicted.\n Without the prior knowledge of ZIKV being already present in South America, and given the lack of understanding of key epidemiologic processes and long-term records of ZIKV cases in the continent, the best related prediction could be carried out for the potential risk of a generic Aedes-borne disease epidemic.\n Here we use a recently published two-vector basic reproduction number model to assess the predictability of the conditions conducive to epidemics of diseases like zika, chikungunya, or dengue, transmitted by the independent or concurrent presence of Aedes aegypti and Aedes albopictus.\n We compare the potential risk of transmission forcing the model with the observed climate and with state-of-the-art operational forecasts from the North American Multi Model Ensemble (NMME), finding that the predictive skill of this new seasonal forecast system is highest for multiple countries in Latin America and the Caribbean during the December-February and March-May seasons, and slightly lower—but still of potential use to decision-makers—for the rest of the year.\n In particular, we find that above-normal suitable conditions for the occurrence of the zika epidemic at the beginning of 2015 could have been successfully predicted at least 1 month in advance for several zika hotspots, and in particular for Northeast Brazil: the heart of the epidemic.\n Nonetheless, the initiation and spread of an epidemic depends on the effect of multiple factors beyond climate conditions, and thus this type of approach must be considered as a guide and not as a formal predictive tool of vector-borne epidemics.\n","id":"PMC5506221","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Frontiers Media S.A.","authors":[{"firstname":"Ángel G.","surname":"Muñoz","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Madeleine C.","surname":"Thomson","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Anna M.","surname":"Stewart-Ibarra","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Gabriel A.","surname":"Vecchi","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Xandre","surname":"Chourio","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Patricia","surname":"Nájera","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Zelda","surname":"Moran","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Xiaosong","surname":"Yang","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.1016/S1473-3099(14)70781-9","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Dengue outlook for the World Cup in Brazil: An early warning model framework driven by real-time seasonal climate forecasts","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.7554/eLife.11285","date":"2016-01-21","title":"Evaluating probabilistic dengue risk forecasts from a prototype early warning system for Brazil","abstract":"Recently, a prototype dengue early warning system was developed to produce probabilistic forecasts of dengue risk three months ahead of the 2014 World Cup in Brazil.\n Here, we evaluate the categorical dengue forecasts across all microregions in Brazil, using dengue cases reported in June 2014 to validate the model.\n We also compare the forecast model framework to a null model, based on seasonal averages of previously observed dengue incidence.\n When considering the ability of the two models to predict high dengue risk across Brazil, the forecast model produced more hits and fewer missed events than the null model, with a hit rate of 57% for the forecast model compared to 33% for the null model.\n This early warning model framework may be useful to public health services, not only ahead of mass gatherings, but also before the peak dengue season each year, to control potentially explosive dengue epidemics.\n","id":"PMC4775211","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"eLife Sciences Publications, Ltd","authors":[{"firstname":"Rachel","surname":"Lowe","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Caio AS","surname":"Coelho","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Caio AS","surname":"Coelho","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Christovam","surname":"Barcellos","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Marilia Sá","surname":"Carvalho","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Marilia Sá","surname":"Carvalho","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Rafael De Castro","surname":"Catão","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Giovanini E","surname":"Coelho","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Walter Massa","surname":"Ramalho","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Trevor C","surname":"Bailey","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"David B","surname":"Stephenson","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Xavier","surname":"Rodó","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Simon I","surname":"Hay","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Simon I","surname":"Hay","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Simon I","surname":"Hay","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Simon I","surname":"Hay","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1016/S2542-5196(17)30064-5","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Climate services for health: Predicting the evolution of the 2016 dengue season in Machala, Ecuador","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1073/pnas.1705969114","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Retracing Zika's footsteps across the Americas with computational modeling","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1101/187591","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Preliminary results of models to predict areas in the Americas with increased likelihood of Zika virus transmission in 2017","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"CDC Zika Virus: Health Effects and Risks","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.3389/fpubh.2017.00317","date":"2017-11-13","title":"Can Zika Account for the Missing Babies?","abstract":"The Zika virus (ZIKV) spread rapidly in Brazil in 2015 and 2016. Rio de Janeiro was among the Brazilian cities which were hit the hardest, with more that a hundred thousand confirmed cases up to the end of 2016. Given the severity of the neurological damage caused by ZIKV on fetuses, we wondered whether it would also cause an increase in the number of miscarriages, especially very early ones.\n As early miscarriages are unlikely to be recorded as a health event, this effect—if it occurred—would only show up as a reduction in the number of live births.\n In this article, we show that there was a 15% drop in live births between September and December 2016 compared with the previous year, and that this sharp drop from epidemiological week 33 onward is strongly correlated with the number of recorded cases of Zika about 40?weeks earlier.\n We postulate that ZIKV is directly responsible for this drop in the birth rate.\n Further work is required to ascertain whether other factors such as the fear of having a microcephaly baby or the economic crisis are having a significant effect.\n","id":"PMC5712541","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Frontiers Media S.A.","authors":[{"firstname":"Flávio Codeço","surname":"Coelho","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Margaret","surname":"Armstrong","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Valeria","surname":"Saraceni","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Cristina","surname":"Lemos","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.1111/padr.12074","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Women's reproductive intentions and behaviors during the Zika epidemic in Brazil","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Neglected and Unprotected: The Impact of the Zika Outbreak on Women and Girls in Northeastern Brazil","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1056/NEJMc1605389","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Requests for abortion in Latin America related to concern about Zika virus exposure","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1097/AOG.0000000000001914","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Access to Contraception in the Context of Zika: Health System challenges and responses","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1590/0102-311X00064416","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Ensuring a rights-based health sector response to women affected by Zika","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1371/journal.pone.0144926","date":"2015-11-26","title":"Malnutrition and Childhood Disability in Turkana, Kenya: Results from a Case-Control Study","abstract":"Background\nChildren with disabilities may be particularly vulnerable to malnutrition, as a result of exclusions and feeding difficulties.\n\n However, there is limited evidence currently available on this subject.\n\n\nMethods\nA population-based case-control study was conducted in Turkana County, Kenya, between July and August 2013. Key informants in the community identified children aged 6 months to 10 years who they believed may have a disability.\n\n These children were screened by a questionnaire (UNICEF-Washington Group) and assessed by a paediatrician to confirm whether they had a disability and the type.\n\n Two controls without disabilities were selected per case: A sibling control (sibling nearest in age) and a neighbourhood control (nearest neighbour within one year of age).\n\n The caregiver completed a questionnaire on behalf of the child (e.\n\ng.\n\n information on feeding, poverty, illness, education), and anthropometric measures were taken.\n\n We undertook multivariable logistic and linear regression analyses to estimate the relationship between disability and malnutrition.\n\n\nResults\nThe study included 311 cases with disabilities, 196 sibling controls and 300 neighbour controls.\n\n Children with disabilities were more likely to report a range of feeding difficulties.\n\n They were 1.6–2.9 times more likely to have malnutrition in comparison to neighbour controls or family controls, including general malnutrition (low weight for age), stunting (low height for age), low body mass index (BMI) or low mid upper arm circumference (MUAC) for age.\n\n Children with disabilities were almost twice as likely to have wasting (low weight for height) in comparison to neighbour controls (OR = 1.9, 95% CI 1.1–3.2), but this difference was not apparent compared with siblings (OR = 1.5, 95% CI 0.8–2.7).\n\n Children with disabilities also faced other exclusions.\n\n For instance those aged 5+ were much more likely not to attend school than neighbour controls (OR = 8.5, 95% CI 4.3–16.9).\n\n\nConclusions\nChildren with disabilities were particularly vulnerable to malnutrition, even within this area of food insecurity and widespread malnutrition.\n\n Efforts need to be made to include children with disabilities within food supplementation programmes, and school based programmes alone may be inadequate to meet this need.\n\n Exclusion of children with disabilities from education is also a priority area to be addressed.\n\n\n","id":"PMC4686999","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Public Library of Science","authors":[{"firstname":"Hannah","surname":"Kuper","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Velma","surname":"Nyapera","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jennifer","surname":"Evans","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"David","surname":"Munyendo","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Maria","surname":"Zuurmond","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Severine","surname":"Frison","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Victoria","surname":"Mwenda","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"David","surname":"Otieno","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"James","surname":"Kisia","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jacobus","surname":"van Wouwe","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Jacobus","surname":"van Wouwe","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1016/S0140-6736(12)60692-8","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Prevalence and risk of violence against children with disabilities: A systematic review and meta-analysis of observational studies","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1371/journal.pone.0107300","date":"2014-08-11","title":"The Impact of Disability on the Lives of Children; Cross-Sectional Data Including 8,900 Children with Disabilities and 898,834 Children without Disabilities across 30 Countries","abstract":"Background\nChildren with disabilities are widely believed to be less likely to attend school or access health care, and more vulnerable to poverty.\n\n There is currently little large-scale or internationally comparable evidence to support these claims.\n\n The aim of this study was to investigate the impact of disability on the lives of children sponsored by Plan International across 30 countries.\n\n\nMethods and Findings\nWe conducted a cross-sectional survey including 907,734 children aged 0–17 participating in the Plan International Sponsorship Programme across 30 countries in 2012. Parents/guardians were interviewed using standardised questionnaires including information on: age, sex, health, education, poverty, and water and sanitation facilities.\n\n Disability was assessed through a single question and information was collected on type of impairment.\n\n The dataset included 8,900 children with reported disabilities across 30 countries.\n\n The prevalence of disability ranged from 0.4%–3.0% and was higher in boys than girls in 22 of the 30 countries assessed – generally in the range of 1.3–1.4 fold higher.\n\n Children with disabilities were much less likely to attend formal education in comparison to children without disabilities in each of the 30 countries, with age-sex adjusted odds ratios exceeding 10 for nearly half of the countries.\n\n This relationship varied by impairment type.\n\n Among those attending school, children with disabilities were at a lower level of schooling for their age compared to children without disabilities.\n\n Children with disabilities were more likely to report experiencing a serious illness in the last 12 months, except in Niger.\n\n There was no clear relationship between disability and poverty.\n\n\nConclusions\nChildren with disabilities are at risk of not fulfilling their educational potential and are more vulnerable to serious illness.\n\n This exclusion is likely to have a long-term deleterious impact on their lives unless services are adapted to promote their inclusion.\n\n\n","id":"PMC4159292","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Public Library of Science","authors":[{"firstname":"Hannah","surname":"Kuper","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Adrienne","surname":"Monteath-van Dok","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Kevin","surname":"Wing","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Lisa","surname":"Danquah","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jenny","surname":"Evans","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Maria","surname":"Zuurmond","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jacqueline","surname":"Gallinetti","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Stefano","surname":"Federici","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Stefano","surname":"Federici","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1111/jar.12073","date":"1970-01-01","title":"'He's hard work, but he's worth it'. The experience of caregivers of individuals with intellectual disabilities and challenging behaviour: A meta-synthesis of qualitative research","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1080/09638237.2016.1276538","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Relationship between caregiving burden and depression in caregivers of individuals with intellectual disabilities in Korea","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"A Socio-Economic Impact Assessment of the Zika Virus in Latin America and the Caribbean: With a Focus on Brazil, Colombia and Suriname","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"INFANT Feeding in Areas of Zika Virus Transmission:Summary of Rapid Advice Guideline","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Fifth Meeting of the Emergency Committee under the International Health Regulations (2005) Regarding Microcephaly, Other Neurological Disorders and Zika Virus","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Ministerio da Saude Declara Fim da Emergencia Nacional para Zika","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Zika virus: Transmission, detection, control, and prevention","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[{"doi":"10.1371/journal.pntd.0005055","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Potential for Zika Virus to Establish a Sylvatic Transmission Cycle in the Americas","abstract":"Zika virus (ZIKV) originated and continues to circulate in a sylvatic transmission cycle between non-human primate hosts and arboreal mosquitoes in tropical Africa.\n Recently ZIKV invaded the Americas, where it poses a threat to human health, especially to pregnant women and their infants.\n Here we examine the risk that ZIKV will establish a sylvatic cycle in the Americas, focusing on Brazil.\n We review the natural history of sylvatic ZIKV and present a mathematical dynamic transmission model to assess the probability of establishment of a sylvatic ZIKV transmission cycle in non-human primates and/or other mammals and arboreal mosquito vectors in Brazil.\n Brazil is home to multiple species of primates and mosquitoes potentially capable of ZIKV transmission, though direct assessment of host competence (ability to mount viremia sufficient to infect a feeding mosquito) and vector competence (ability to become infected with ZIKV and disseminate and transmit upon subsequent feedings) of New World species is lacking.\n Modeling reveals a high probability of establishment of sylvatic ZIKV across a large range of biologically plausible parameters.\n Probability of establishment is dependent on host and vector population sizes, host birthrates, and ZIKV force of infection.\n Research on the host competence of New World monkeys or other small mammals to ZIKV, on vector competence of New World Aedes, Sabethes, and Haemagogus mosquitoes for ZIKV, and on the geographic range of potential New World hosts and vectors is urgently needed.\n A sylvatic cycle of ZIKV would make future elimination efforts in the Americas practically impossible, and paints a dire picture for the epidemiology of ZIKV and our ability to end the ongoing outbreak of congenital Zika syndrome.\n","id":"PMC5157942","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Public Library of Science","authors":[{"firstname":"Benjamin M.","surname":"Althouse","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Nikos","surname":"Vasilakis","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Amadou A.","surname":"Sall","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Mawlouth","surname":"Diallo","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Scott C.","surname":"Weaver","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Kathryn A.","surname":"Hanley","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1590/0004-282X20160035","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Guillain-Barre syndrome associated with the Zika virus outbreak in Brazil","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.3201/eid2205.160107","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Detection of Zika Virus in Semen","abstract":"","id":"PMC4861539","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Centers for Disease Control and Prevention","authors":[{"firstname":"Barry","surname":"Atkinson","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Pasco","surname":"Hearn","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Babak","surname":"Afrough","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Sarah","surname":"Lumley","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Daniel","surname":"Carter","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Emma J.","surname":"Aarons","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Andrew J.","surname":"Simpson","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Timothy J.","surname":"Brooks","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Roger","surname":"Hewson","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.1016/S1473-3099(16)00073-6","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Identification of Zika virus vectors and implications for control","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1128/genomeA.00500-14","date":"2014-05-14","title":"Complete Coding Sequence of Zika Virus from a French Polynesia Outbreak in 2013","abstract":"Zika virus is an arthropod-borne Flavivirus member of the Spondweni serocomplex, transmitted by Aedes mosquitoes.\n We report here the complete coding sequence of a Zika virus strain belonging to the Asian lineage, isolated from an infected patient returning from French Polynesia, an epidemic area in 2013/2014.","id":"PMC4047448","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"American Society for Microbiology","authors":[{"firstname":"Cécile","surname":"Baronti","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Géraldine","surname":"Piorkowski","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Rémi N.","surname":"Charrel","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Laetitia","surname":"Boubis","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Isabelle","surname":"Leparc-Goffart","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Xavier","surname":"de Lamballerie","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1603/ME13096","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Use of the CDC autocidal gravid ovitrap to control and prevent outbreaks of Aedes aegypti (Diptera: Culicidae)","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1093/cid/cit227","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Breast milk as a possible route of vertical transmission of Dengue virus?","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.2807/1560-7917.ES.2016.21.10.30159","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Isolation of infectious Zika virus from saliva and prolonged viral RNA shedding in a traveller returning from the Dominican Republic to Italy, January 2016","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1136/bmj.i1049","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Zika virus","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/j.chom.2016.03.008","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Type III interferons produced by human placental trophoblasts confer protection against Zika virus infection","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1089/vbz.2014.1607","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Molecular characterization of three Zika flaviviruses obtained from sylvatic mosquitoes in the Central African Republic","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.2807/1560-7917.ES2014.19.13.20751","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Evidence of perinatal transmission of Zika virus, French Polynesia, December 2013 and February 2014","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1097/01.ogx.0000483239.08585.8d","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Zika virus infection in pregnant women in Rio de Janeiro- preliminary report","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.4269/ajtmh.15-0022","date":"2015-04-06","title":"Detection of Zika Virus Infection in Thailand, 2012–2014","abstract":"Zika virus (ZIKV) is an emerging mosquito-borne pathogen with reported cases in Africa, Asia, and large outbreaks in the Pacific.\n No autochthonous ZIKV infections have been confirmed in Thailand.\n However, there have been several cases reported in travelers returning from Thailand.\n Here we report seven cases of acute ZIKV infection in Thai residents across the country confirmed by molecular or serological testing including sequence data.\n These endemic cases, combined with previous reports in travelers, provide evidence that ZIKV is widespread throughout Thailand.\n","id":"PMC4530765","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"The American Society of Tropical Medicine and Hygiene","authors":[{"firstname":"Rome","surname":"Buathong","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Laura","surname":"Hermann","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Butsaya","surname":"Thaisomboonsuk","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Wiriya","surname":"Rutvisuttinunt","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Chonticha","surname":"Klungthong","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Piyawan","surname":"Chinnawirotpisan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Wudtichai","surname":"Manasatienkij","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ananda","surname":"Nisalak","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Stefan","surname":"Fernandez","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"In-Kyu","surname":"Yoon","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Passakorn","surname":"Akrasewi","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Tanarak","surname":"Plipat","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1099/0022-1317-69-8-1913","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Detection of virus-specific antigen in the nuclei or nucleoli of cells infected with Zika or Langat virus","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/S1473-3099(16)00095-5","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Detection and sequencing of Zika virus from amniotic fluid of fetuses with microcephaly in Brazil: a case study","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/S0140-6736(16)00562-6","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Guillain-Barre Syndrome outbreak associated with Zika virus infection in French Polynesia: a case-control study","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Fatal West Nile virus infection after probable transfusion-associated transmission-Colorado, 2012","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.2471/BLT.16.171207","date":"2016-03-17","title":"Background review for diagnostic test development for Zika virus infection","abstract":"Objective\nTo review the state of knowledge about diagnostic testing for Zika virus infection and identify areas of research needed to address the current gaps in knowledge.\n\n\nMethods\nWe made a non-systematic review of the published literature about Zika virus and supplemented this with information from commercial diagnostic test kits and personal communications with researchers in European preparedness networks.\n\n The review covered current knowledge about the geographical spread, pathogen characteristics, life cycle and infection kinetics of the virus.\n\n The available molecular and serological tests and biosafety issues are described and discussed in the context of the current outbreak strain.\n\n\nFindings\nWe identified the following areas of research to address current knowledge gaps: (i) an urgent assessment of the laboratory capacity and capability of countries to detect Zika virus; (ii) rapid and extensive field validation of the available molecular and serological tests in areas with and without Zika virus transmission, with a focus on pregnant women; (iii) monitoring the genomic diversity of circulating Zika virus strains; (iv) prospective studies into the virus infection kinetics, focusing on diagnostic sampling (specimen types, combinations and timings); and (v) developing external quality assessments for molecular and serological testing, including differential diagnosis for similar viruses and symptom clusters.\n\n The availability of reagents for diagnostic development (virus strains and antigens, quantified viral ribonucleic acid) needs to be facilitated.\n\n\nConclusion\nAn international laboratory response is needed, including preparation of protocols for prospective studies to address the most pressing information needs.\n\n\n","id":"PMC4969995","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"World Health Organization","authors":[{"firstname":"Rémi N","surname":"Charrel","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Isabelle","surname":"Leparc-Goffart","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Suzan","surname":"Pas","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Xavier","surname":"de Lamballerie","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Marion","surname":"Koopmans","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Chantal","surname":"Reusken","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.1038/nature18296","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The Brazilian Zika virus strain causes birth defects in experimental models","abstract":"id='P2'>Zika virus (ZIKV) is an arbovirus belonging to the genus Flavivirus (Family Flaviviridae) and was first described in 1947 in Uganda following blood analyses of sentinel Rhesus monkeys1.\n Until the 20th century, the African and Asian lineages of the virus did not cause meaningful infections in humans.\n However, in 2007, vectored by Aedes aegypti mosquitoes, ZIKV caused the first noteworthy epidemic on the island of Yap in Micronesia2.\n Patients experienced fever, skin rash, arthralgia and conjunctivitis2.\n From 2013 to 2015, the Asian lineage of the virus caused further massive outbreaks in New Caledonia and French Polynesia.\n In 2013, ZIKV reached Brazil, later spreading to other countries in South and Central America3.\n In Brazil, the virus has been linked to congenital malformations, including microcephaly and other severe neurological diseases, such as Guillain-Barré syndrome4,5.\n Despite clinical evidence, direct experimental proof showing that the Brazilian ZIKV (ZIKVBR) strain causes birth defects remains missing6.\n Here we demonstrate that the ZIKVBR infects fetuses, causing intra-uterine growth restriction (IUGR), including signs of microcephaly in mice.\n Moreover, the virus infects human cortical progenitor cells, leading to an increase in cell death.\n Finally, we observed that the infection of human brain organoids resulted in a reduction of proliferative zones and disrupted cortical layers.\n These results indicate that ZIKVBR crosses the placenta and causes microcephaly by targeting cortical progenitor cells, inducing cell death by apoptosis and autophagy, impairing neurodevelopment.\n Our data reinforce the growing body of evidence linking the ZIKVBR outbreak to the alarming number of cases of congenital brain malformations.\n Our model can be used to determine the efficiency of therapeutic approaches to counteracting the harmful impact of ZIKVBR in human neurodevelopment.\n","id":"PMC4902174","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"NULL","authors":[{"firstname":"Fernanda R.","surname":"Cugola","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Isabella R.","surname":"Fernandes","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Fabiele B.","surname":"Russo","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Beatriz C.","surname":"Freitas","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"João L.M.","surname":"Dias","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Katia P.","surname":"Guimarães","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Cecília","surname":"Benazzato","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Nathalia","surname":"Almeida","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Graciela C.","surname":"Pignatari","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Sarah","surname":"Romero","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Carolina M.","surname":"Polonio","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Isabela","surname":"Cunha","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Carla L.","surname":"Freitas","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Wesley N.","surname":"Brandão","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Cristiano","surname":"Rossato","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"David G.","surname":"Andrade","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Daniele de P.","surname":"Faria","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Alexandre T.","surname":"Garcez","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Carlos A..","surname":"Buchpigel","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Carla T.","surname":"Braconi","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Erica","surname":"Mendes","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Amadou A.","surname":"Sall","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Paolo M. de A.","surname":"Zanotto","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jean Pierre S.","surname":"Peron","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Alysson R.","surname":"Muotri","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Patricia C. B.","surname":"Beltrão-Braga","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.15585/mmwr.mm6528e2","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Suspected female-to-male sexual transmission of Zika virus - New York City, 2016","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1089/088282403322396082","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Innate and adaptive immune responses determine protection against disseminated infection by west nile encephalitis virus","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/0035-9203(52)90043-6","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Zika virus: pathogenicity and physical properties","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/0035-9203(52)90042-4","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Zika virus. I. Isolations and serological specificity","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.15585/mmwr.mm6517e2","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Update: ongoing Zika virus transmission-Puerto Rico, November 1, 2015-April 14, 2016","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1056/NEJMoa1601824","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Zika virus infection with prolonged maternal viremia and fetal brain abnormalities","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1056/NEJMoa0805715","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Zika virus outbreak on Yap Island Federated States of Micronesia","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/s0140-6736(16)00624-3","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Infectious Zika viral particles in breastmilk","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.3389/fmicb.2016.01667","date":"2016-10-05","title":"Emergence and Spreading Potential of Zika Virus","abstract":"Zika virus (ZIKV) is an arthropod-borne Flavivirus (family Flaviviridae) closely related to dengue, yellow fever and West Nile viruses.\n ZIKV remained neglected, confined to enzootic transmission cycles in Africa and Asia, until the first significant outbreak was reported in Micronesia in 2007. Subsequent epidemics of growing incidence occurred in French Polynesia and other South Pacific Islands, and recently, in the Americas.\n The latter and currently ongoing outbreak of unprecedented incidence revealed the association of ZIKV infection with the occurrence of severe congenital malformations and neurological diseases, leading to a widespread concern about its potential to pose a global public health threat.\n Serological and molecular data suggest that the genetic and geographic diversification of ZIKV may be greatly underestimated.\n Here we discuss several ecological and epidemiological aspects, together with the evolutionary processes that may have driven the emergence and abrupt spread of ZIKV in the Americas.\n","id":"PMC5071320","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Frontiers Media S.A.","authors":[{"firstname":"Álvaro","surname":"Fajardo","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Juan","surname":"Cristina","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Pilar","surname":"Moreno","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.1056/NEJMp1600297","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Zika virus in the Americas- yet another arbovirus threat","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1186/1743-422X-10-311","date":"2013-09-30","title":"Quantitative real-time PCR detection of Zika virus and evaluation with field-caught Mosquitoes","abstract":"Background\nZika virus (ZIKV), a mosquito borne flavivirus is a pathogen affecting humans in Asia and Africa.\n\n ZIKV infection diagnosis relies on serology–which is challenging due to cross-reactions with other flaviviruses and/or absence or low titer of IgM and IgG antibodies at early phase of infection- virus isolation, which is labor intensive, time consuming and requires appropriate containment.\n\n Therefore, real-time RT-PCR (rRT-PCR) is an appealing option as a rapid, sensitive and specific method for detection of ZIKV in the early stage of infection.\n\n So far, only one rRT-PCR assay has been described in the context of the outbreak in Micronesia in 2007. In this study, we described a one step rRT-PCR for ZIKV which can detect a wider genetic diversity of ZIKV isolates from Asia and Africa.\n\n\nResults\nThe NS5 protein coding regions of African ZIKV isolates were sequenced and aligned with representative flaviviruses sequences from GenBank to design primers and probe from conserved regions.\n\n The analytical sensitivity of the assay was evaluated to be 32 genome-equivalents and 0.05 plaque forming unit (pfu).\n\n The assay was shown to detect 37 ZIKV isolates covering a wide geographic in Africa and Asia over 36 years but none of the 31 other flaviviruses tested showing high analytical specificity.\n\n The rRT-PCR could be performed in less than 3 hours.\n\n This method was used successfully to detect ZIKV strains from field-caught mosquitoes.\n\n\nConclusion\nWe have developed a rapid, sensitive and specific rRT – PCR for detection of ZIKV.\n\n This assay is a useful tool for detection of ZIKV infection in regions where a number of other clinically indistinguishable arboviruses like dengue or chikungunya co-circulate.\n\n Further studies are needed to validate this assay in clinical positive samples collected during acute ZIKV infection.\n\n\n","id":"PMC4016539","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"BioMed Central","authors":[{"firstname":"Oumar","surname":"Faye","email":"oumarfaye@pasteur.sn","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ousmane","surname":"Faye","email":"ofaye@pasteur.sn","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Diawo","surname":"Diallo","email":"diawod@yahoo.com","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Mawlouth","surname":"Diallo","email":"diallo@pasteur.sn","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Manfred","surname":"Weidmann","email":"mweidma@gwdg.de","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Amadou Alpha","surname":"Sall","email":"asall@pasteur.sn","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.3201/eid1705.101939","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Probable Non–Vector-borne Transmission of Zika Virus, Colorado, USA","abstract":"Clinical and serologic evidence indicate that 2 American scientists contracted Zika virus infections while working in Senegal in 2008. One of the scientists transmitted this arbovirus to his wife after his return home.\n Direct contact is implicated as the transmission route, most likely as a sexually transmitted infection.\n","id":"PMC3321795","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Centers for Disease Control and Prevention","authors":[{"firstname":"Brian D.","surname":"Foy","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Kevin C.","surname":"Kobylinski","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Joy L. Chilson","surname":"Foy","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Bradley J.","surname":"Blitvich","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Amelia","surname":"Travassos da Rosa","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Andrew D.","surname":"Haddow","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Robert S.","surname":"Lanciotti","email":"NULL","contributions":"3"},{"firstname":"Robert B.","surname":"Tesh","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.3201/eid2101.140894","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Detection of Zika Virus in Urine","abstract":"We describe the kinetics of Zika virus (ZIKV) detection in serum and urine samples of 6 patients.\n Urine samples were positive for ZIKV &gt;10 days after onset of disease, which was a notably longer period than for serum samples.\n This finding supports the conclusion that urine samples are useful for diagnosis of ZIKV infections.\n","id":"PMC4285245","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Centers for Disease Control and Prevention","authors":[{"firstname":"Ann-Claire","surname":"Gourinat","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Olivia","surname":"O’Connor","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Elodie","surname":"Calvez","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Cyrille","surname":"Goarant","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Myrielle","surname":"Dupont-Rouzeyrol","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1371/journal.pntd.0002681","date":"2013-12-19","title":"Zika Virus in Gabon (Central Africa) – 2007: A New Threat from <italic>Aedes albopictus</italic>?","abstract":"Background\nChikungunya and dengue viruses emerged in Gabon in 2007, with large outbreaks primarily affecting the capital Libreville and several northern towns.\n\n Both viruses subsequently spread to the south-east of the country, with new outbreaks occurring in 2010. The mosquito species Aedes albopictus, that was known as a secondary vector for both viruses, recently invaded the country and was the primary vector involved in the Gabonese outbreaks.\n\n We conducted a retrospective study of human sera and mosquitoes collected in Gabon from 2007 to 2010, in order to identify other circulating arboviruses.\n\n\nMethodology/Principal Findings\nSample collections, including 4312 sera from patients presenting with painful febrile disease, and 4665 mosquitoes belonging to 9 species, split into 247 pools (including 137 pools of Aedes albopictus), were screened with molecular biology methods.\n\n Five human sera and two Aedes albopictus pools, all sampled in an urban setting during the 2007 outbreak, were positive for the flavivirus Zika (ZIKV).\n\n The ratio of Aedes albopictus pools positive for ZIKV was similar to that positive for dengue virus during the concomitant dengue outbreak suggesting similar mosquito infection rates and, presumably, underlying a human ZIKV outbreak.\n\n ZIKV sequences from the envelope and NS3 genes were amplified from a human serum sample.\n\n Phylogenetic analysis placed the Gabonese ZIKV at a basal position in the African lineage, pointing to ancestral genetic diversification and spread.\n\n\nConclusions/Significance\nWe provide the first direct evidence of human ZIKV infections in Gabon, and its first occurrence in the Asian tiger mosquito, Aedes albopictus.\n\n These data reveal an unusual natural life cycle for this virus, occurring in an urban environment, and potentially representing a new emerging threat due to this novel association with a highly invasive vector whose geographic range is still expanding across the globe.\n\n\n","id":"PMC3916288","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Public Library of Science","authors":[{"firstname":"Gilda","surname":"Grard","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Mélanie","surname":"Caron","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Illich Manfred","surname":"Mombo","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Dieudonné","surname":"Nkoghe","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Statiana","surname":"Mboui Ondo","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Davy","surname":"Jiolle","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Didier","surname":"Fontenille","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Christophe","surname":"Paupy","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Eric Maurice","surname":"Leroy","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Remi","surname":"Charrel","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Remi","surname":"Charrel","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1371/journal.pntd.0001477","date":"2011-12-03","title":"Genetic Characterization of Zika Virus Strains: Geographic Expansion of the Asian Lineage","abstract":"Background\nZika virus (ZIKV) is a mosquito-borne flavivirus distributed throughout much of Africa and Asia.\n\n Infection with the virus may cause acute febrile illness that clinically resembles dengue fever.\n\n A recent study indicated the existence of three geographically distinct viral lineages; however this analysis utilized only a single viral gene.\n\n Although ZIKV has been known to circulate in both Africa and Asia since at least the 1950s, little is known about the genetic relationships between geographically distinct virus strains.\n\n Moreover, the geographic origin of the strains responsible for the epidemic that occurred on Yap Island, Federated States of Micronesia in 2007, and a 2010 pediatric case in Cambodia, has not been determined.\n\n\nMethodology/Principal Findings\nTo elucidate the genetic relationships of geographically distinct ZIKV strains and the origin of the strains responsible for the 2007 outbreak on Yap Island and a 2010 Cambodian pediatric case of ZIKV infection, the nucleotide sequences of the open reading frame of five isolates from Cambodia, Malaysia, Nigeria, Uganda, and Senegal collected between 1947 and 2010 were determined.\n\n Phylogenetic analyses of these and previously published ZIKV sequences revealed the existence of two main virus lineages (African and Asian) and that the strain responsible for the Yap epidemic and the Cambodian case most likely originated in Southeast Asia.\n\n Examination of the nucleotide and amino acid sequence alignments revealed the loss of a potential glycosylation site in some of the virus strains, which may correlate with the passage history of the virus.\n\n\nConclusions/Significance\nThe basal position of the ZIKV strain isolated in Malaysia in 1966 suggests that the recent outbreak in Micronesia was initiated by a strain from Southeast Asia.\n\n Because ZIKV infection in humans produces an illness clinically similar to dengue fever and many other tropical infectious diseases, it is likely greatly misdiagnosed and underreported.\n\n\n","id":"PMC3289602","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Public Library of Science","authors":[{"firstname":"Andrew D.","surname":"Haddow","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Amy J.","surname":"Schuh","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Chadwick Y.","surname":"Yasuda","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Matthew R.","surname":"Kasper","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Vireak","surname":"Heang","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Rekol","surname":"Huy","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hilda","surname":"Guzman","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Robert B.","surname":"Tesh","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Scott C.","surname":"Weaver","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ken E.","surname":"Olson","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ken E.","surname":"Olson","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1128/JVI.00354-15","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Biology of Zika virus infection in human skin cells","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.2807/1560-7917.ES.2016.21.16.30203","date":"1970-01-01","title":"High specificity of a novel Zika virus ELISA in European patients after exposure to different Flaviviruses","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.3201/eid1509.090442","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Zika Virus Outside Africa","abstract":"This should be considered an emerging pathogen.\n","id":"PMC2819875","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Centers for Disease Control and Prevention","authors":[{"firstname":"Edward B.","surname":"Hayes","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1089/vbz.2016.29001.hig","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Zika virus: emergence and emergency","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.15585/mmwr.mm6508e2","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Transmission of Zika virus through sexual contact with travelers to areas of ongoing transmission-continental United States, 2016","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1128/JVI.77.20.11296-11298.2003","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Patterns of intra-and interhost nonsynonymous variation reveal strong purifying selection in dengue virus","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1007/s10900-016-0177-7","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The convergence of a virus, mosquitoes, and human travel in globalizing the Zika epidemic","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/0035-9203(77)90146-8","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Arbovirus isolations from, and serological studies on, wild and domestic vertebrates from Kano Plain, Kenya","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1038/nature17994","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Structure of the thermally stable Zika virus","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.3201/eid1408.080287","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Genetic and Serologic Properties of Zika Virus Associated with an Epidemic, Yap State, Micronesia, 2007 ","abstract":"One-sentence summary for table of contents: The full coding region nucleic acid sequence and serologic properties of the virus were identified.\n","id":"PMC2600394","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Centers for Disease Control and Prevention","authors":[{"firstname":"Robert S.","surname":"Lanciotti","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Olga L.","surname":"Kosoy","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Janeen J.","surname":"Laven","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jason O.","surname":"Velez","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Amy J.","surname":"Lambert","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Alison J.","surname":"Johnson","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Stephanie M.","surname":"Stanfield","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Mark R.","surname":"Duffy","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.3201/eid2205.160065","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Phylogeny of Zika Virus in Western Hemisphere, 2015","abstract":"","id":"PMC4861537","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Centers for Disease Control and Prevention","authors":[{"firstname":"Robert S.","surname":"Lanciotti","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Amy J.","surname":"Lambert","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Mark","surname":"Holodniy","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Sonia","surname":"Saavedra","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Leticia del Carmen Castillo","surname":"Signor","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.1128/JVI.00252-16","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Zika virus: new clinical syndromes and its emergence in the western hemisphere","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1371/journal.pntd.0004687","date":"2016-04-13","title":"Zika Virus Outbreak in Haiti in 2014: Molecular and Clinical Data","abstract":"Background\nZika virus (ZIKV), first isolated in Uganda in 1947, is currently spreading rapidly through South America and the Caribbean.\n\n In Brazil, infection has been linked with microcephaly and other serious complications, leading to declaration of a public health emergency of international concern; however, there currently are only limited data on the virus (and its possible sources and manifestations) in the Caribbean.\n\n\nMethods\nFrom May, 2014-February, 2015, in conjunction with studies of chikungunya (CHIKV) and dengue (DENV) virus infections, blood samples were collected from children in the Gressier/Leogane region of Haiti who presented to a school clinic with undifferentiated febrile illness.\n\n Samples were initially screened by RT-PCR for CHIKV and DENV, with samples negative in these assays further screened by viral culture.\n\n\nFindings\nOf 177 samples screened, three were positive for ZIKV, confirmed by viral sequencing; DENV-1 was also identified in culture from one of the three positive case patients.\n\n Patients were from two different schools and 3 different towns, with all three cases occurring within a single week, consistent with the occurrence of an outbreak in the region.\n\n Phylogenetic analysis of known full genome viral sequences demonstrated a close relationship with ZIKV from Brazil; additional analysis of the NS5 gene, for which more sequences are currently available, showed the Haitian strains clustering within a monophyletic clade distinct from Brazilian, Puerto Rican and Guatemalan sequences, with all part of a larger clade including isolates from Easter Island.\n\n Phylogeography also clarified that at least three major African sub-lineages exist, and confirmed that the South American epidemic is most likely to have originated from an initial ZIKV introduction from French Polynesia into Easter Island, and then to the remainder of the Americas.\n\n\nConclusions\nZIKV epidemics in South America, as well as in Africa, show complex dissemination patterns.\n\n The virus appears to have been circulating in Haiti prior to the first reported cases in Brazil.\n\n Factors contributing to transmission and the possible linkage of this early Haitian outbreak with microcephaly remain to be determined.\n\n\n","id":"PMC4844159","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Public Library of Science","authors":[{"firstname":"John","surname":"Lednicky","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Valery Madsen","surname":"Beau De Rochars","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Maha","surname":"El Badry","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Julia","surname":"Loeb","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Taina","surname":"Telisma","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Sonese","surname":"Chavannes","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Gina","surname":"Anilis","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Eleonora","surname":"Cella","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Massimo","surname":"Ciccozzi","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Mohammed","surname":"Rashid","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Bernard","surname":"Okech","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Marco","surname":"Salemi","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"J. Glenn","surname":"Morris","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Richard","surname":"Reithinger","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Richard","surname":"Reithinger","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1016/0035-9203(54)90006-1","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Zika virus: a report on three cases of human infection during an epidemic of juandice in Nigeria","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/s1473-3099(16)00138-9","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Zika virus: high infectious viral load in semen, a new sexually transmitted pathogen?","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.2450/2015.0066-15","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Zika virus and the never-ending story of emerging pathogens and transfusion medicine","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Isolation of Zika virus from Aedes aegypti mosquitoes in Malaysia","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.15585/mmwr.mm6506e1","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Evidence of Zika virus infection in brain and placental tissues from two congenitally infected newborns and two fetal losses- Brazil, 2015","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/s0140-6736(16)00644-9","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Acute myelitis due to Zika virus infection","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/j.cell.2016.05.008","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Zika virus infection during pregnancy in mice causes placental damage and fetal demise","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1056/NEJMoa1600651","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Zika virus associated with microcephaly","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.2807/1560-7917.ES2014.19.14.20761","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Potential for Zika virus transmission through blood transfusion demonstrated during an outbreak in French Polynesia","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/j.jcv.2015.04.021","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Detection of Zika virus in saliva","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.3201/eid2102.141363","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Potential Sexual Transmission of Zika Virus","abstract":"In December 2013, during a Zika virus (ZIKV) outbreak in French Polynesia, a patient in Tahiti sought treatment for hematospermia, and ZIKV was isolated from his semen.\n ZIKV transmission by sexual intercourse has been previously suspected.\n This observation supports the possibility that ZIKV could be transmitted sexually.\n","id":"PMC4313657","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Centers for Disease Control and Prevention","authors":[{"firstname":"Didier","surname":"Musso","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Claudine","surname":"Roche","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Emilie","surname":"Robin","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Tuxuan","surname":"Nhan","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Anita","surname":"Teissier","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Van-Mai","surname":"Cao-Lormeau","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.2807/1560-7917.ES.2016.21.32.30314","date":"2016-08-09","title":"Persistent detection of Zika virus RNA in semen for six months after symptom onset in a traveller returning from Haiti to Italy, February 2016","abstract":"A man in his early 30s reported in January 2016 a history of fever, asthenia and erythematous rash during a stay in Haiti.\n On his return to Italy, ZIKV RNA was detected in his urine and saliva 91 days after symptom onset, and in his semen on day 188, six months after symptom onset.\n Our findings support the possibility of sexual transmission of ZIKV and highlight the importance of continuing to investigate non-vector-borne ZIKV infection.\n ","id":"PMC4998502","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC)","authors":[{"firstname":"Emanuele","surname":"Nicastri","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Concetta","surname":"Castilletti","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Giuseppina","surname":"Liuzzi","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Marco","surname":"Iannetta","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Maria R","surname":"Capobianchi","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Giuseppe","surname":"Ippolito","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.1111/j.1537-2995.2009.02550.x","date":"1970-01-01","title":"West Nile virus in 2006 and 2007: the Canadian Blood Services' experience","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.2807/1560-7917.ES2014.19.9.20720","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Zika virus infection complicated by Guillain-Barre syndrome - case report, French Polynesia, December 2013","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Possible West Nile virus transmission to an infant through breast-feeding-Michigan","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.15585/mmwr.mm6505e1","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Interim guidelines for prevention of sexual transmission of Zika virus- United States, 2016","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/j.cell.2016.04.059","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Rapid, low-cost detection of Zika virus using programmable biomolecular components","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.15585/mmwr.mm6502e1","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Interin guidelines for pregnant women during a Zika virus outbreak- United States, 2016","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1056/NEJMra1602113","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Zika virus","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1073/pnas.1607931113","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Human antibody responses after dengue virus infection are highly cross-reactive to Zika virus","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.2450/2013.0077-13","date":"1970-01-01","title":"West Nile virus in the transfusion setting with a special focus on Italian preventive measures adopted in 2008-2012 and their impact on blood safety","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.15585/mmwr.mm6521e1","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Interim guidance for itnerpretation of Zika virus antibody test results","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1056/NEJMsr1604338","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Zika virus and birth defects- reviewing the evidence for causality","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1371/journal.pntd.0003930","date":"2015-06-22","title":"Application of <italic>w</italic>MelPop <italic>Wolbachia</italic> Strain to Crash Local Populations of <italic>Aedes aegypti</italic>\n","abstract":"The endosymbiotic bacteria Wolbachia pipientis (wMel strain) has been successfully established in several populations of Aedes aegypti, the primary dengue vector.\n The virulent Wolbachia strain wMelPop is known to cause several pathological impacts (increased egg mortality, life shortening, etc.\n) reducing overall fitness in the mosquito Ae.\n aegypti.\n Increased egg mortality could substantially reduce egg banks in areas with a lengthy monsoonal dry season, and be employed to eliminate local populations.\n We tested this application under semi-field cage conditions.\n First, we determined that wMelPop infection significantly reduced the survival of desiccation-resistant eggs of the dengue vector Ae.\n aegypti, with shade and temperature having a significant impact; nearly all wMelPop-infected eggs failed to hatch after 6 and 10 weeks in summer and winter conditions, respectively.\n In laboratory selection experiments we found that egg desiccation resistance can be increased by selection, and that this effect of wMelPop infection is due to the nuclear background of the host rather than Wolbachia.\n We then conducted an invasion of wMelPop within a semi-field cage using sustained weekly releases of wMelPop infected mosquitoes, with fixation achieved after 9 weeks.\n The egg populations wMelPop infected and an uninfected control were then subjected to a simulated prolonged monsoonal dry season (2.5 months) before flooding to induce hatching.\n The wMelPop infected eggs suffered significantly greater mortality than the controls, with only 0.67% and 4.35% of respective infected and uninfected eggs held in 99% shade hatching after 80 days.\n These studies suggest that wMelPop could be used to locally eliminate populations of Ae.\n aegypti that are exposed to prolonged dry conditions, particularly if combined with vector control.\n","id":"PMC4512704","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Public Library of Science","authors":[{"firstname":"Scott A.","surname":"Ritchie","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Michael","surname":"Townsend","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Chris J.","surname":"Paton","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ashley G.","surname":"Callahan","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ary A.","surname":"Hoffmann","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jason L.","surname":"Rasgon","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jason L.","surname":"Rasgon","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1099/vir.0.000097","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Post-translational regulation and modifications of flavivirus structural proteins","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.3389/fmicb.2016.00496","date":"2016-03-27","title":"Zika Virus: the Latest Newcomer","abstract":"Since the beginning of this century, humanity has been facing a new emerging, or re-emerging, virus threat almost every year: West Nile, Influenza A, avian flu, dengue, Chikungunya, SARS, MERS, Ebola, and now Zika, the latest newcomer.\n Zika virus (ZIKV), a flavivirus transmitted by Aedes mosquitoes, was identified in 1947 in a sentinel monkey in Uganda, and later on in humans in Nigeria.\n The virus was mainly confined to the African continent until it was detected in south-east Asia the 1980’s, then in the Micronesia in 2007 and, more recently in the Americas in 2014, where it has displayed an explosive spread, as advised by the World Health Organization, which resulted in the infection of hundreds of thousands of people.\n ZIKV infection was characterized by causing a mild disease presented with fever, headache, rash, arthralgia, and conjunctivitis, with exceptional reports of an association with Guillain–Barre syndrome (GBS) and microcephaly.\n However, since the end of 2015, an increase in the number of GBS associated cases and an astonishing number of microcephaly in fetus and new-borns in Brazil have been related to ZIKV infection, raising serious worldwide public health concerns.\n Clarifying such worrisome relationships is, thus, a current unavoidable goal.\n Here, we extensively review what is currently known about ZIKV, from molecular biology, transmission routes, ecology, and epidemiology, to clinical manifestations, pathogenesis, diagnosis, prophylaxis, and public health.\n","id":"PMC4835484","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Frontiers Media S.A.","authors":[{"firstname":"Juan-Carlos","surname":"Saiz","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ángela","surname":"Vázquez-Calvo","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ana B.","surname":"Blázquez","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Teresa","surname":"Merino-Ramos","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Estela","surname":"Escribano-Romero","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Miguel A.","surname":"Martín-Acebes","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.1371/journal.pntd.0004517","date":"2016-02-16","title":"Zika Virus Infection and Stillbirths: A Case of Hydrops Fetalis, Hydranencephaly and Fetal Demise","abstract":"Background\nThe rapid spread of Zika virus in the Americas and current outbreak of microcephaly in Brazil has raised attention to the possible deleterious effects that the virus may have on fetuses.\n\n\nMethodology/Principal Findings\nWe report a case of a 20-year-old pregnant woman who was referred to our service after a large Zika virus outbreak in the city of Salvador, Brazil with an ultrasound examination that showed intrauterine growth retardation of the fetus at the 18th gestational week.\n\n Ultrasound examinations in the 2nd and 3rd trimesters demonstrated severe microcephaly, hydranencephaly, intracranial calcifications and destructive lesions of posterior fossa, in addition to hydrothorax, ascites and subcutaneous edema.\n\n An induced labor was performed at the 32nd gestational week due to fetal demise and delivered a female fetus.\n\n ZIKV-specific real-time polymerase chain reaction amplification products were obtained from extracts of cerebral cortex, medulla oblongata and cerebrospinal and amniotic fluid, while extracts of heart, lung, liver, vitreous body of the eye and placenta did not yield detectable products.\n\n\nConclusions/Significance\nThis case report provides evidence that in addition to microcephaly, there may be a link between Zika virus infection and hydrops fetalis and fetal demise.\n\n Given the recent spread of the virus, systematic investigation of spontaneous abortions and stillbirths may be warranted to evaluate the risk that ZIKV infection imparts on these outcomes.\n\n\n","id":"PMC4767410","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Public Library of Science","authors":[{"firstname":"Manoel","surname":"Sarno","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Gielson A.","surname":"Sacramento","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ricardo","surname":"Khouri","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Mateus S.","surname":"do Rosário","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Federico","surname":"Costa","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Gracinda","surname":"Archanjo","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Luciane A.","surname":"Santos","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Nivison","surname":"Nery","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Nikos","surname":"Vasilakis","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Albert I.","surname":"Ko","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Antonio R. P.","surname":"de Almeida","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Peter J.","surname":"Hotez","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Peter J.","surname":"Hotez","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1007/s12640-016-9635-3","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Zika virus infection and development of a murine model","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1099/vir.0.80247-0","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Viral envelope protein glycosylation is a molecular determinant of the neuroinvasiveness of the New York strain of West Nile virus","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1590/1414-431X20165420","date":"2016-04-01","title":"Overview of Zika virus (ZIKV) infection in regards to the Brazilian\nepidemic","abstract":"Zika virus (ZIKV), a mosquito-borne flavivirus, belongs to the\nFlaviviridae family, genus Flavivirus.\n ZIKV was\ninitially isolated in 1947 from a sentinel monkey in the Zika forest, Uganda.\n Little\nclinical importance was attributed to ZIKV, once only few symptomatic cases were\nreported in some African and Southeast Asiatic countries.\n This situation changed in\n2007, when a large outbreak was registered on the Yap Island, Micronesia, caused by\nthe Asian ZIKV lineage.\n Between 2013 and 2014, ZIKV spread explosively and caused\nmany outbreaks in different islands of the Southern Pacific Ocean and in 2015\nautochthonous transmission was reported in Brazil.\n Currently, Brazil is the country\nwith the highest number of ZIKV-positive cases in Latin America.\n Moreover, for the\nfirst time after the discovery of ZIKV, the Brazilian scientists are studying the\npossibility for the virus to cause severe congenital infection related to\nmicrocephaly and serious birth defects due to the time-spatial coincidence of the\nalarming increase of newborns with microcephaly and the Brazilian ZIKV epidemic.\n The\npresent review summarizes recent information for ZIKV epidemiology, clinical picture,\ntransmission, diagnosis and the consequences of this emerging virus in Brazil.\n","id":"PMC4855997","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Associação Brasileira de Divulgação Científica","authors":[{"firstname":"S.N.","surname":"Slavov","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"K.K.","surname":"Otaguiri","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"S.","surname":"Kashima","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"D.T.","surname":"Covas","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.1056/nejmc1610613","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Fatal Zika virus infection with secondary nonsexual transmission","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/j.stem.2016.02.016","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Zika virus infects human cortical neural progenitors and attenuates their growth","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.2807/1560-7917.ES2014.19.4.20685","date":"1970-01-01","title":"First case of laboratory-confirmed Zika virus infection imported into Europe, November 2013","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1186/1756-3305-5-100","date":"2012-05-23","title":"Low-temperature threshold for egg survival of a post-diapause and non-diapause European aedine strain, <italic>Aedes albopictus</italic> (Diptera: Culicidae)","abstract":"Background\nThe interplay between global warming and invasive arthropods in temperate zones is of utmost interest in terms of the potential expansions of vector-borne diseases.\n\n Up to now, investigations on the recent establishment of mosquito vectors have focused on temperatures during their phases of activity.\n\n However, cold temperatures may also act as a strong ecological constraint.\n\n Projected changes in winter climate indicate an increase of mean minimum temperatures of the coldest quarter, less frequent days with frost and a shorter frost-season in Europe at the end of the century.\n\n Nevertheless, single cold extremes are also expected to persist under warming scenarios, which have a strong impact on reproduction success.\n\n\nMethods\nHere, the temperature constraints of European Aedes albopictus eggs, which had passed through a diapause, compared to non-diapausing eggs were examined systematically under controlled laboratory conditions.\n\n Additionally, one tropical strain of Ae.\n\n albopictus and of Ae.\n\n aegypti was used in the comparison.\n\n\nResults\nThe lower temperature threshold tolerated by the European eggs of Ae.\n\n albopictus which have undergone a diapause, was -10°C for long term exposures (12 and 24h) and -12°C for 1h exposure.\n\n Non-diapausing eggs of European Ae.\n\n albopictus were found to hatch after a -7°C cold treatment (8, 12 and 24h exposure).\n\n Both tropical aedine species only tolerated the long term treatment at -2°C.\n\n Neither Ae.\n\n albopictus nor Ae.\n\n aegypti eggs hatched after being exposed to -15°C.\n\n Survival was mainly influenced by temperature (F?=?329.2, df?=?1, p?&lt;?0.001), whereas the duration of the cold treatment only significantly influenced the hatching response at the thermal limits of survival (F?=?5.6, df?=?1, p?=?0.031) but not at 0°C (F?=?0.1, df?=?1, p?=?0.730).\n\n Hatching success after the cold treatment was significantly increased in European eggs, which have undergone a diapause compared to non-diapausing eggs (F?=?14.7, df?=?3, p?&lt;?0.001).\n\n These results illustrate rapid adaptation.\n\n\nConclusions\nHere, low temperature thresholds for aedine mosquito egg survival were detected.\n\n The compilation of risk maps for temperate regions can substantially be improved by considering areas where an establishment of a vector population is unlikely due to winter conditions.\n\n\n","id":"PMC3403971","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"BioMed Central","authors":[{"firstname":"Stephanie Margarete","surname":"Thomas","email":"stephanie.thomas@uni-bayreuth.de","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ulla","surname":"Obermayr","email":"ulla.obermayr@biogents.com","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Dominik","surname":"Fischer","email":"dominik.fischer@uni-bayreuth.de","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Juergen","surname":"Kreyling","email":"juergen.kreyling@uni-bayreuth.de","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Carl","surname":"Beierkuhnlein","email":"carl.beierkuhnlein@uni-bayreuth.de","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.1016/S0140-6736(16)00006-4","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Zika virus in Brazil and macular atrophy in a child with microcephaly","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.2807/1560-7917.ES.2016.21.8.30148","date":"1970-01-01","title":"An autochthonous case of Zika due to possible sexual transmission, Florence, Italy, 2014","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/j.ijid.2016.05.014","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Zika virus, vectors, reservoirs, amplifying hosts, and their potential to spread worldwide: what we know and what we should investigate urgently","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/j.chom.2016.04.006","date":"1970-01-01","title":"From mosquitos to humans: genetic evolution of Zika virus","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/j.antiviral.2016.03.010","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Zika virus: history, emergence, biology, and prospects for control","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1073/pnas.1019295108","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Genetic elimination of dengue vector mosquitoes","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/j.jfma.2016.02.002","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Zika virus infection- the next wave after dengue?","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/S2214-109X(16)00048-6","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Zika virus outbreak in the Americas: the need for novel mosquito control methods","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Women's reproductive health knowledge, attitudes and practices in relation to the Zika virus outbreak in northeast Brazil","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Women's reproductive health knowledge, attitudes and practices in relation to the Zika virus outbreak in northeast Brazil","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Patient-centred access to health care: Conceptualising access at the interface of health systems and populations","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Beyond access and utilization: defining and measuring health system coverage","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1097/00005650-198102000-00001","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The concept of access: definition and relationship to consumer satisfaction","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.2307/3349700","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Equity of Access to health care: some conceptual and ethical issues","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.2190/986L-LHQ6-2VTE-YRRN","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The concepts and principles of equity and health","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The concept and measurement of accessibility","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/0037-7856(76)90114-1","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Accessibility and the demand for preventive care","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/S0277-9536(00)00003-4","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Measuring equity in access to health care","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/0167-6296(93)90004-X","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Equity and equality in health and health care","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Equity in health care: confronting the confusion","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"A framework for the study of access to medical care","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.2307/2137284","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Revisiting the behavioral model and access to medical care: does It matter?","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1258/135581902760082517","date":"1970-01-01","title":"What does 'access to health care' mean?","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Utilisation des services de sante en pays en developpement: une etude dans la zone rurale de Nioki au Zaire","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Justice, health, and healthcare","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Some ecological differentials in the use of medical services","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/0277-9536(86)90121-8","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Financial, organizational and professional factors affecting health care utilization","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1001/archpedi.1995.02170180071011","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The rest of the access-to-care puzzle. Addressing structural and personal barriers to health care for socially disadvantaged children","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/S0277-9536(00)00415-9","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Equity of access to health care services: theory and evidence from the UK","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1136/jech.2003.017731","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Equity of access to health care: outlining the foundations for action","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Measurement of equity in health","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Poverty and access to health care in developing countries","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Access to primary health care: three challenges to equity","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/0277-9536(89)90125-1","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Are people willing and able to Pay for health services?","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Access to Health and the Burden of Treatment in India: An Inter-state Comparison","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Episodes of care and long term trends in Individuals' patterns of utilization of medical care for acute illnesses","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1177/107755878504200202","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Health care episodes: definition, measurement and use","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"La recherche sur l'utilisation des services de sante pour comprendre le comportement des consommateurs","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Monitoring Equity in Health and Healthcare: A Conceptual Framework","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Les facteurs associes a l'utilisation des services de sante dans les pays en developpement","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/S0277-9536(00)00313-0","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Defining the &quot;urban&quot; in urbanization and health: a factor analysis approach","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/S1353-8292(00)00008-3","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Small area variations in health related behaviours; do these depend on the behaviour itself, its measurement, or on personal characteristics?","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/S1353-8292(01)00019-3","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Measuring the built environment: validity of a site survey instrument for use in urban settings","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/0277-9536(95)00181-6","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Health related behaviour in context: a multilevel modelling approach","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/0037-7856(75)90002-5","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Medico-cultural conflicts in Asian settings: an explanatory theory","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/0277-9536(94)00134-F","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Quality, cost and utilization of health services in developing countries. A longitudinal study in Zaire","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Epidemiological bulletin, Villavicencio 2016: Behaviour of the Events of Interest in Public Health","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Prevalence of asymptomatic Zika virus infection: A systematic review","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Regional Zika epidemiological update (Americas) May 25, 2017. Washington: Pan American Health Organization; 2017. Available from: http://www.paho.org/hq/index.php?option=com_content&amp;view=article&amp;id=11599&amp;Itemid=41691&amp;lang=en [cited 2017 Jul 12].","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1371/journal.pmed.1002203","date":"2016-11-16","title":"Zika Virus Infection as a Cause of Congenital Brain Abnormalities and Guillain–Barré Syndrome: Systematic Review","abstract":"Background\nThe World Health Organization (WHO) stated in March 2016 that there was scientific consensus that the mosquito-borne Zika virus was a cause of the neurological disorder Guillain–Barré syndrome (GBS) and of microcephaly and other congenital brain abnormalities based on rapid evidence assessments.\n\n Decisions about causality require systematic assessment to guide public health actions.\n\n The objectives of this study were to update and reassess the evidence for causality through a rapid and systematic review about links between Zika virus infection and (a) congenital brain abnormalities, including microcephaly, in the foetuses and offspring of pregnant women and (b) GBS in any population, and to describe the process and outcomes of an expert assessment of the evidence about causality.\n\n\nMethods and Findings\nThe study had three linked components.\n\n First, in February 2016, we developed a causality framework that defined questions about the relationship between Zika virus infection and each of the two clinical outcomes in ten dimensions: temporality, biological plausibility, strength of association, alternative explanations, cessation, dose–response relationship, animal experiments, analogy, specificity, and consistency.\n\n Second, we did a systematic review (protocol number CRD42016036693).\n\n We searched multiple online sources up to May 30, 2016 to find studies that directly addressed either outcome and any causality dimension, used methods to expedite study selection, data extraction, and quality assessment, and summarised evidence descriptively.\n\n Third, WHO convened a multidisciplinary panel of experts who assessed the review findings and reached consensus statements to update the WHO position on causality.\n\n We found 1,091 unique items up to May 30, 2016. For congenital brain abnormalities, including microcephaly, we included 72 items; for eight of ten causality dimensions (all except dose–response relationship and specificity), we found that more than half the relevant studies supported a causal association with Zika virus infection.\n\n For GBS, we included 36 items, of which more than half the relevant studies supported a causal association in seven of ten dimensions (all except dose–response relationship, specificity, and animal experimental evidence).\n\n Articles identified nonsystematically from May 30 to July 29, 2016 strengthened the review findings.\n\n The expert panel concluded that (a) the most likely explanation of available evidence from outbreaks of Zika virus infection and clusters of microcephaly is that Zika virus infection during pregnancy is a cause of congenital brain abnormalities including microcephaly, and (b) the most likely explanation of available evidence from outbreaks of Zika virus infection and GBS is that Zika virus infection is a trigger of GBS.\n\n The expert panel recognised that Zika virus alone may not be sufficient to cause either congenital brain abnormalities or GBS but agreed that the evidence was sufficient to recommend increased public health measures.\n\n Weaknesses are the limited assessment of the role of dengue virus and other possible cofactors, the small number of comparative epidemiological studies, and the difficulty in keeping the review up to date with the pace of publication of new research.\n\n\nConclusions\nRapid and systematic reviews with frequent updating and open dissemination are now needed both for appraisal of the evidence about Zika virus infection and for the next public health threats that will emerge.\n\n This systematic review found sufficient evidence to say that Zika virus is a cause of congenital abnormalities and is a trigger of GBS.\n\n\n","id":"PMC5207634","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Public Library of Science","authors":[{"firstname":"Fabienne","surname":"Krauer","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Maurane","surname":"Riesen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Maurane","surname":"Riesen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ludovic","surname":"Reveiz","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ludovic","surname":"Reveiz","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Olufemi T.","surname":"Oladapo","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ruth","surname":"Martínez-Vega","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Teegwendé V.","surname":"Porgo","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Anina","surname":"Haefliger","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Anina","surname":"Haefliger","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Nathalie J.","surname":"Broutet","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Nicola","surname":"Low","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Nicola","surname":"Low","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"NULL","surname":"NULL","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"NULL","surname":"NULL","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Lorenz","surname":"von Seidlein","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Lorenz","surname":"von Seidlein","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"NULL","surname":"NULL","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"NULL","surname":"NULL","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"NULL","surname":"NULL","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.3389/fneur.2016.00170","date":"2016-09-20","title":"Zika Virus and Guillain–Barre Syndrome: Is There Sufficient Evidence for Causality?","abstract":"Worldwide concern over Zika virus causing Guillain–Barre syndrome (GBS) soared after recent reports that Zika-related weakness was due to GBS.\n A global strategic response plan was initiated with recommendations for at-risk countries to prepare for GBS.\n This plan has major economic implications, as nations with limited resources struggle to implement costly immunotherapy.\n Since confirmation of causality is prerequisite to providing specific management recommendations, it is prudent to review data endorsing a GBS diagnosis.\n We searched PubMed for manuscripts reporting original clinical, laboratory, and electrodiagnostic data on Zika virus and GBS.\n Five papers met criteria; four case reports and one large case–control study (French Polynesia) that attributed 42 paralysis cases to a motor variant of GBS.\n Brighton criteria were reportedly used to diagnose GBS, but no differential diagnosis was presented, which violates criteria.\n GBS was characterized by early onset (median 6?days post-viral syndrome), rapid progression (median 6?days from onset to nadir), and atypical clinical features (52% lacked areflexia, 48% of facial palsies were unilateral).\n Electrodiagnostic evaluations fell short of guidelines endorsed by American Academy of Neurology.\n Typical anti-ganglioside antibodies in GBS motor variants were rarely present.\n We conclude that there is no causal relationship between Zika virus and GBS because data failed to confirm GBS and exclude other causes of paralysis.\n Focus should be redirected at differential diagnosis, proper use of diagnostic criteria, and electrodiagnosis that follows recommended guidelines.\n We also call for a moratorium on recommendations for at-risk countries to prepare costly immunotherapies directed at GBS.\n","id":"PMC5044512","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Frontiers Media S.A.","authors":[{"firstname":"A. Arturo","surname":"Leis","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Dobrivoje S.","surname":"Stokic","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.1056/NEJMoa0805715","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Zika virus outbreak on Yap Island, Federated States of Micronesia.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1001/jama.2016.19006","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Birth defects among fetuses and infants of US women with evidence of possible Zika virus infection during pregnancy.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.15585/mmwr.mm6544a4","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Incidence of Zika virus disease by age and sex - Puerto Rico, November 1, 2015-October 20, 2016.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Higgins JPT, Green S, editors. Cochrane handbook for systematic reviews of interventions, version 5.1.0. [updated March 2011]. London: The Cochrane Collaboration; 2011. Available from: www.handbook.cochrane.org [cited 2017 Jul 12]. ","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1371/journal.pmed.1000097","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses: The PRISMA Statement","abstract":"","id":"PMC2707599","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Public Library of Science","authors":[{"firstname":"David","surname":"Moher","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Alessandro","surname":"Liberati","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jennifer","surname":"Tetzlaff","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Douglas G.","surname":"Altman","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"NULL","surname":"NULL","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Case definitions. Washington: Pan American Health Organization; 2016. Available from: http://www.paho.org/hq/index.php?option=com_content&amp;view=article&amp;id=11117:2015-zika-case-definitions-&amp;Itemid=41532&amp;lang=en [cited 2016 Oct 28].","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Standardized protocol: cross-sectional seroprevalence study of Zika virus infection in the general population Geneva: World Health Organization and Institut Pasteur; 2016. Available from: http://origin.who.int/reproductivehealth/zika/zika-virus-research-agenda/en/ [cited 2016 Jul 22].","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Published primary research studies and protocols. Washington: Pan American Health Organization; 2017. Available from: http://www.paho.org/zika-research/ [cited 2017 Feb 6].","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/j.jclinepi.2011.11.014","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Assessing risk of bias in prevalence studies: modification of an existing tool and evidence of interrater agreement.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1136/jech-2013-203104","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Meta-analysis of prevalence.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/j.cct.2015.05.010","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Advances in the meta-analysis of heterogeneous clinical trials II: The quality effects model.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Zika virus in Brazil: a prevalence study. Proceedings of the 68th Annual Scientific Meeting of the American Association for Clinical Chemistry, 2016, United States.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/S1473-3099(17)30727-2","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Association between microcephaly, Zika virus infection, and other risk factors in Brazil: final report of a case-control study.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1111/trf.14028","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Zika virus and blood transfusion: the experience of French Polynesia.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1371/journal.pntd.0004636","date":"2016-03-28","title":"Zika Virus Outbreak in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil: Clinical Characterization, Epidemiological and Virological Aspects","abstract":"Background\nIn 2015, Brazil was faced with the cocirculation of three arboviruses of major public health importance.\n\n The emergence of Zika virus (ZIKV) presents new challenges to both clinicians and public health authorities.\n\n Overlapping clinical features between diseases caused by ZIKV, Dengue (DENV) and Chikungunya (CHIKV) and the lack of validated serological assays for ZIKV make accurate diagnosis difficult.\n\n\nMethodology / Principal Findings\nThe outpatient service for acute febrile illnesses in Fiocruz initiated a syndromic clinical observational study in 2007 to capture unusual presentations of DENV infections.\n\n In January 2015, an increase of cases with exanthematic disease was observed.\n\n Trained physicians evaluated the patients using a detailed case report form that included clinical assessment and laboratory investigations.\n\n The laboratory diagnostic algorithm included assays for detection of ZIKV, CHIKV and DENV.\n\n 364 suspected cases of Zika virus disease were identified based on clinical criteria between January and July 2015. Of these, 262 (71.9%) were tested and 119 (45.4%) were confirmed by the detection of ZIKV RNA.\n\n All of the samples with sequence information available clustered within the Asian genotype.\n\n\nConclusions / Significance\nThis is the first report of a ZIKV outbreak in the state of Rio de Janeiro, based on a large number of suspected (n = 364) and laboratory confirmed cases (n = 119).\n\n We were able to demonstrate that ZIKV was circulating in Rio de Janeiro as early as January 2015. The peak of the outbreak was documented in May/June 2015. More than half of the patients reported headache, arthralgia, myalgia, non-purulent conjunctivitis, and lower back pain, consistent with the case definition of suspected ZIKV disease issued by the Pan American Health Organization (PAHO).\n\n However, fever, when present, was low-intensity and short-termed.\n\n In our opinion, pruritus, the second most common clinical sign presented by the confirmed cases, should be added to the PAHO case definition, while fever could be given less emphasis.\n\n The emergence of ZIKV as a new pathogen for Brazil in 2015 underscores the need for clinical vigilance and strong epidemiological and laboratory surveillance.\n\n\n","id":"PMC4829157","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Public Library of Science","authors":[{"firstname":"Patrícia","surname":"Brasil","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Guilherme Amaral","surname":"Calvet","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Guilherme Amaral","surname":"Calvet","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"André Machado","surname":"Siqueira","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Mayumi","surname":"Wakimoto","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Patrícia Carvalho","surname":"de Sequeira","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Aline","surname":"Nobre","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Marcel de Souza Borges","surname":"Quintana","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Marco Cesar Lima","surname":"de Mendonça","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Otilia","surname":"Lupi","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Rogerio Valls","surname":"de Souza","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Carolina","surname":"Romero","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Heruza","surname":"Zogbi","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Clarisse da Silveira","surname":"Bressan","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Simone Sampaio","surname":"Alves","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ricardo","surname":"Lourenço-de-Oliveira","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Rita Maria Ribeiro","surname":"Nogueira","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Marilia Sá","surname":"Carvalho","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ana Maria Bispo","surname":"de Filippis","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Thomas","surname":"Jaenisch","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ann M","surname":"Powers","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Ann M","surname":"Powers","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"NULL","surname":"NULL","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"NULL","surname":"NULL","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"NULL","surname":"NULL","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1056/NEJMoa1602412","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Zika virus infection in pregnant women in Rio de Janeiro.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1056/NEJMoa1602412","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Zika virus infection in pregnant women in Rio de Janeiro.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1002/pd.4882","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Associated ultrasonographic findings in fetuses with microcephaly because of suspected Zika virus (ZIKV) infection during pregnancy.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.3201/eid2304.161716","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Assessing Sensitivity and Specificity of Surveillance Case Definitions for Zika Virus Disease","abstract":"We evaluated performance of 5 case definitions for Zika virus disease surveillance in a human cohort during an outbreak in Singapore, August 26–September 5, 2016. Because laboratory tests are largely inaccessible, use of case definitions that include rash as a required clinical feature are useful in identifying this disease.\n","id":"PMC5367394","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Centers for Disease Control and Prevention","authors":[{"firstname":"Angela","surname":"Chow","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Hanley","surname":"Ho","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Mar-Kyaw","surname":"Win","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Yee-Sin","surname":"Leo","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.1001/jamaophthalmol.2016.0267","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Ocular findings in infants with microcephaly associated with presumed Zika virus congenital infection in Salvador, Brazil.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.15585/mmwr.mm6703a2","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Population-Based Surveillance of Birth Defects Potentially Related to Zika Virus Infection — 15 States and U.S. Territories, 2016","abstract":"","id":"PMC5812309","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Centers for Disease Control and Prevention","authors":[{"firstname":"Augustina","surname":"Delaney","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Cara","surname":"Mai","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Ashley","surname":"Smoots","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Janet","surname":"Cragan","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Sascha","surname":"Ellington","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Peter","surname":"Langlois","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Rebecca","surname":"Breidenbach","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jane","surname":"Fornoff","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Julie","surname":"Dunn","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Mahsa","surname":"Yazdy","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Nancy","surname":"Scotto-Rosato","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Joseph","surname":"Sweatlock","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Deborah","surname":"Fox","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jessica","surname":"Palacios","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Nina","surname":"Forestieri","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Vinita","surname":"Leedom","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Mary","surname":"Smiley","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Amy","surname":"Nance","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Heather","surname":"Lake-Burger","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Paul","surname":"Romitti","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Carrie","surname":"Fall","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Miguel Valencia","surname":"Prado","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jerusha","surname":"Barton","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"J. Michael","surname":"Bryan","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"William","surname":"Arias","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Samara Viner","surname":"Brown","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jonathan","surname":"Kimura","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Sylvia","surname":"Mann","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Brennan","surname":"Martin","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Lucia","surname":"Orantes","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Amber","surname":"Taylor","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"John","surname":"Nahabedian","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Amanda","surname":"Akosa","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ziwei","surname":"Song","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Stacey","surname":"Martin","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Roshan","surname":"Ramlal","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Carrie","surname":"Shapiro-Mendoza","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jennifer","surname":"Isenburg","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Cynthia A.","surname":"Moore","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Suzanne","surname":"Gilboa","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Margaret A.","surname":"Honein","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.15585/mmwr.mm6534e1","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Guillain-Barre syndrome during ongoing Zika virus transmission - Puerto Rico, January 1-July 31, 2016.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1097/01.AOG.0000514683.06169.08","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Zika virus in a non-endemic urban population: patient characteristics and ultrasound findings.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1212/WNL.0000000000003024","date":"1970-01-01","title":"News from the battlefront: Zika virus-associated Guillain-Barre syndrome in Brazil.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Zika virus infection in a cohort study to assess the incidence of dengue, state of Sao Paulo, Brazil, 2015, 2016. Proceedings of the 65th Annual Meeting of the American Society of Tropical Medicine and Hygiene, 2016, United States.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/S0140-6736(16)30902-3","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Congenital Zika virus syndrome in Brazil: a case series of the first 1501 livebirths with complete investigation.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"[Confirmed dengue, chikungunya and Zika cases during the period 2014 to 2016 in Barcelona, Spain]","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1542/peds.2017-2044","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Epidemiology of pediatric Zika virus infections.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Zika virus disease among travelers returning from the Americas between January 2013 and February 2016: a geosentinel analysis. Proceedings of the 65th Annual Meeting of the American Society of Tropical Medicine and Hygiene, 2016, United States.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.15585/mmwr.mm6611a5","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Establishing a Timeline to Discontinue Routine Testing of Asymptomatic Pregnant Women for Zika Virus Infection — American Samoa, 2016–2017","abstract":"","id":"PMC5657887","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Centers for Disease Control and Prevention","authors":[{"firstname":"W. Thane","surname":"Hancock","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Heidi M.","surname":"Soeters","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Susan L.","surname":"Hills","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ruth","surname":"Link-Gelles","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Mary E.","surname":"Evans","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"W. Randolph","surname":"Daley","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Emily","surname":"Piercefield","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Magele Scott","surname":"Anesi","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Mary Aseta","surname":"Mataia","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Anaise M.","surname":"Uso","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Benjamin","surname":"Sili","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Aifili John","surname":"Tufa","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jacqueline","surname":"Solaita","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Elizabeth","surname":"Irvin-Barnwell","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Dana","surname":"Meaney-Delman","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jason","surname":"Wilken","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Paul","surname":"Weidle","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Karrie-Ann E.","surname":"Toews","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"William","surname":"Walker","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Phillip M.","surname":"Talboy","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"William K.","surname":"Gallo","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Nevin","surname":"Krishna","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Rebecca L.","surname":"Laws","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Megan R.","surname":"Reynolds","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Alaya","surname":"Koneru","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Carolyn V.","surname":"Gould","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Incidence of travel-associated Zika virus infection in 2016: Preliminary results of a prospective cohort study in Belgian travellers to the Americas. Proceedings of the 10th European Congress on Tropical Medicine and International Health. Belgium.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1097/PHH.0000000000000684","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Disparities in Zika virus testing and incidence among women of reproductive age - New York city, 2016.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Microcephaly not a reliable indicator of congenital Zika virus syndrome in infants.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Surveillance of Zika virus in pregnant women returning from affected areas: Results from a cohort study in southern Europe. Proceedings of the 10th European Congress on Tropical Medicine and International Health. Belgium.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1001/jamaneurol.2016.3720","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Congenital Zika virus infection: beyond neonatal microcephaly.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/j.cmi.2016.12.027","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Sexually acquired Zika virus: a systematic review.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.7717/peerj.1904","date":"1970-03-16","title":"Estimating risks of importation and local transmission of Zika virus infection","abstract":"Background.\n An international spread of Zika virus (ZIKV) infection has attracted global attention.\n ZIKV is conveyed by a mosquito vector, Aedes species, which also acts as the vector species of dengue and chikungunya viruses.\n","id":"PMC4824915","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"PeerJ Inc.","authors":[{"firstname":"Kyeongah","surname":"Nah","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Kenji","surname":"Mizumoto","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Yuichiro","surname":"Miyamatsu","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Yohei","surname":"Yasuda","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ryo","surname":"Kinoshita","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Hiroshi","surname":"Nishiura","email":"nishiurah@gmail.com","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Giovanni","surname":"Benelli","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Giovanni","surname":"Benelli","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1097/01.AOG.0000514332.47783.0f","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Screening for Zika virus in a high-risk non-endemic urban population: patient characteristics and testing outcomes.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/j.jns.2017.09.001","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Zika virus disease-associated Guillain-Barre syndrome - Barranquilla, Colombia 2015-2016.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Progressive lesions of central nervous system in microcephalic fetuses with suspected congenital Zika virus syndrome.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/S1473-3099(17)30102-0","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Analysis of blood from Zika virus-infected fetuses: a prospective case series.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1371/journal.pntd.0005869","date":"2017-08-12","title":"Increased rates of Guillain-Barré syndrome associated with Zika virus outbreak in the Salvador metropolitan area, Brazil","abstract":"In mid-2015, Salvador, Brazil, reported an outbreak of Guillain-Barré syndrome (GBS), coinciding with the introduction and spread of Zika virus (ZIKV).\n We found that GBS incidence during April–July 2015 among those ?12 years of age was 5.6 cases/100,000 population/year and increased markedly with increasing age to 14.7 among those ?60 years of age.\n We conducted interviews with 41 case-patients and 85 neighborhood controls and found no differences in demographics or exposures prior to GBS-symptom onset.\n A higher proportion of case-patients (83%) compared to controls (21%) reported an antecedent illness (OR 18.1, CI 6.9–47.5), most commonly characterized by rash, headache, fever, and myalgias, within a median of 8 days prior to GBS onset.\n Our investigation confirmed an outbreak of GBS, particularly in older adults, that was strongly associated with Zika-like illness and geo-temporally associated with ZIKV transmission, suggesting that ZIKV may result in severe neurologic complications.\n","id":"PMC5595339","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Public Library of Science","authors":[{"firstname":"Ashley R.","surname":"Styczynski","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Juliane M. A. S.","surname":"Malta","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Juliane M. A. S.","surname":"Malta","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Elisabeth R.","surname":"Krow-Lucal","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jadher","surname":"Percio","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Martha E.","surname":"Nóbrega","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Alexander","surname":"Vargas","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Tatiana M.","surname":"Lanzieri","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Priscila L.","surname":"Leite","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"J. Erin","surname":"Staples","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Marc X.","surname":"Fischer","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ann M.","surname":"Powers","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Gwong-Jen J.","surname":"Chang","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"P. L.","surname":"Burns","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Erin M.","surname":"Borland","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jeremy P.","surname":"Ledermann","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Eric C.","surname":"Mossel","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Lawrence B.","surname":"Schonberger","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ermias B.","surname":"Belay","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jorge L.","surname":"Salinas","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Roberto D.","surname":"Badaro","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"James J.","surname":"Sejvar","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Giovanini E.","surname":"Coelho","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Marilia Sá","surname":"Carvalho","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Marilia Sá","surname":"Carvalho","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Defining the clinical manifestations of Zika and dengue patients attended in Ribeirao Preto, Brazil. Proceedings of the 65th Annual Meeting of the American Society of Tropical Medicine and Hygiene, 2016, United States.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1097/01.AOG.0000514691.21416.35","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The effects of Zika in pregnancy: the Miami experience.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1111/ene.13552","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Clinical and nerve conduction features in Guillain-Barre syndrome associated with Zika virus infection in Cucuta, Colombia.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/S1473-3099(16)30324-3","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Low risk of a sexually-transmitted Zika virus outbreak.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1111/aji.12630","date":"1970-01-01","title":"High incidence of Zika virus infection detected in plasma and cervical cytology specimens from pregnant women in Guayaquil, Ecuador.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Zika virus and blood transfusion, experiences from French Polynesia.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.2807/1560-7917.ES2014.19.14.20761","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Potential for Zika virus transmission through blood transfusion demonstrated during an outbreak in French Polynesia, November 2013 to February 2014.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.15585/mmwr.mm6530e1","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Update: ongoing Zika virus transmission - Puerto Rico, November 1, 2015-July 7, 2016.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/S1473-3099(16)30318-8","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Association between Zika virus infection and microcephaly in Brazil, January to May, 2016: preliminary report of a case-control study.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/S0140-6736(16)00562-6","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Guillain-Barre syndrome outbreak associated with Zika virus infection in French Polynesia: a case-control study.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.15585/mmwr.mm6515e1","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Patterns in Zika virus testing and infection, by report of symptoms and pregnancy status - United States, January 3-March 5, 2016.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/S0140-6736(16)31429-5","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Prospective Zika virus disease cohort: systematic screening.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Initial experience with imported Zika virus infection in Spain.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/j.eimc.2016.08.003","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Initial experience with imported Zika virus infection in Spain.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.15585/mmwr.mm6534e3","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Hearing loss in infants with microcephaly and evidence of congenital Zika virus infection - Brazil, November 2015-May 2016.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1056/NEJMoa1604037","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Zika virus disease in Colombia - preliminary report.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1056/NEJMoa1605564","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Guillain-Barre syndrome associated with Zika virus infection in Colombia.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/j.ajog.2016.11.318","date":"1970-01-01","title":"A county hospital-based prenatal screening program for Zika virus infection.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/j.ajog.2017.01.018","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Infant outcomes among women with Zika virus infection during pregnancy: results of a large prenatal Zika screening program.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.3201/eid2304.161549","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Zika Virus Seroprevalence, French Polynesia, 2014–2015","abstract":"During 2013–2014, French Polynesia experienced an outbreak of Zika virus infection.\n Serosurveys conducted at the end of the outbreak and 18 months later showed lower than expected disease prevalence rates (49%) and asymptomatic:symptomatic case ratios (1:1) in the general population but significantly different prevalence rates (66%) and asymptomatic:symptomatic ratios (1:2) in schoolchildren.\n","id":"PMC5367400","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Centers for Disease Control and Prevention","authors":[{"firstname":"Maite","surname":"Aubry","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Anita","surname":"Teissier","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Michael","surname":"Huart","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Sébastien","surname":"Merceron","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jessica","surname":"Vanhomwegen","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Claudine","surname":"Roche","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Anne-Laure","surname":"Vial","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Sylvianne","surname":"Teururai","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Sébastien","surname":"Sicard","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Sylvie","surname":"Paulous","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Philippe","surname":"Desprès","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jean-Claude","surname":"Manuguerra","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Henri-Pierre","surname":"Mallet","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Didier","surname":"Musso","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xavier","surname":"Deparis","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Van-Mai","surname":"Cao-Lormeau","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.2807/1560-7917.ES.2017.22.44.17-00102","date":"2017-06-29","title":"The proportion of asymptomatic infections and spectrum of disease among pregnant women infected by Zika virus: systematic monitoring in French Guiana, 2016","abstract":"Zika virus (ZIKV) infection has been associated with complications during pregnancy.\n Although the presence of symptoms might be a risk factor for complication, the proportion of ZIKV-infected pregnant women with symptoms remains unknown.\n Following the emergence of ZIKV in French Guiana, all pregnancies in the territory were monitored by RT-PCR and/or detection of ZIKV antibodies.\n Follow-up data collected during pregnancy monitoring interviews were analysed from 1 February to 1 June 2016. We enrolled 3,050 pregnant women aged 14–48 years and 573 (19%) had laboratory-confirmed ZIKV infection.\n Rash, arthralgia, myalgia and conjunctival hyperaemia were more frequently observed in ZIKV-positive women; 23% of them (95% confidence interval (CI): 20–27) had at least one symptom compatible with ZIKV infection.\n Women 30 years and older were significantly more likely to have symptoms than younger women (28% vs 20%).\n The proportion of symptomatic infections varied from 17% in the remote interior to 35% in the urbanised population near the coast (adjusted risk ratio: 1.6; 95% CI: 1.4–1.9.).\n These estimates put findings on cohorts of symptomatic ZIKV-positive pregnant women into the wider context of an epidemic with mainly asymptomatic infections.\n The proportion of symptomatic ZIKV infections appears to vary substantially between populations.\n","id":"PMC5710134","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC)","authors":[{"firstname":"Claude","surname":"Flamand","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Camille","surname":"Fritzell","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Séverine","surname":"Matheus","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Maryvonne","surname":"Dueymes","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Gabriel","surname":"Carles","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Anne","surname":"Favre","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Antoine","surname":"Enfissi","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Antoine","surname":"Adde","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Magalie","surname":"Demar","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Mirdad","surname":"Kazanji","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Simon","surname":"Cauchemez","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Dominique","surname":"Rousset","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.1093/infdis/jix630","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Differences in prevalence of symptomatic Zika virus infection by age and sex-Puerto Rico, 2016.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1093/cid/cix166","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Lessons learned at the epicenter of Brazil's congenital Zika epidemic: evidence from 87 confirmed cases.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1002/uog.17404","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Association between Zika virus and fetopathy: a prospective cohort study in French Guiana.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1002/uog.17404","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Association between Zika virus and fetopathy: a prospective cohort study in French Guiana.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.15585/mmwr.mm6613e1","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Vital Signs: Update on Zika Virus–Associated Birth Defects and Evaluation of All U.S. Infants with Congenital Zika Virus Exposure — U.S. Zika Pregnancy Registry, 2016","abstract":"Background\nIn collaboration with state, tribal, local, and territorial health departments, CDC established the U.\n\nS.\n\n Zika Pregnancy Registry (USZPR) in early 2016 to monitor pregnant women with laboratory evidence of possible recent Zika virus infection and their infants.\n\n\nMethods\nThis report includes an analysis of completed pregnancies (which include live births and pregnancy losses, regardless of gestational age) in the 50 U.\n\nS.\n\n states and the District of Columbia (DC) with laboratory evidence of possible recent Zika virus infection reported to the USZPR from January 15 to December 27, 2016. Birth defects potentially associated with Zika virus infection during pregnancy include brain abnormalities and/or microcephaly, eye abnormalities, other consequences of central nervous system dysfunction, and neural tube defects and other early brain malformations.\n\n\nResults\nDuring the analysis period, 1,297 pregnant women in 44 states were reported to the USZPR.\n\n Zika virus–associated birth defects were reported for 51 (5%) of the 972 fetuses/infants from completed pregnancies with laboratory evidence of possible recent Zika virus infection (95% confidence interval [CI] = 4%–7%); the proportion was higher when restricted to pregnancies with laboratory-confirmed Zika virus infection (24/250 completed pregnancies [10%, 95% CI = 7%–14%]).\n\n Birth defects were reported in 15% (95% CI = 8%–26%) of fetuses/infants of completed pregnancies with confirmed Zika virus infection in the first trimester.\n\n Among 895 liveborn infants from pregnancies with possible recent Zika virus infection, postnatal neuroimaging was reported for 221 (25%), and Zika virus testing of at least one infant specimen was reported for 585 (65%).\n\n\nConclusions and Implications for Public Health Practice\nThese findings highlight why pregnant women should avoid Zika virus exposure.\n\n Because the full clinical spectrum of congenital Zika virus infection is not yet known, all infants born to women with laboratory evidence of possible recent Zika virus infection during pregnancy should receive postnatal neuroimaging and Zika virus testing in addition to a comprehensive newborn physical exam and hearing screen.\n\n Identification and follow-up care of infants born to women with laboratory evidence of possible recent Zika virus infection during pregnancy and infants with possible congenital Zika virus infection can ensure that appropriate clinical services are available.\n\n\n","id":"PMC5657905","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Centers for Disease Control and Prevention","authors":[{"firstname":"Megan R.","surname":"Reynolds","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Abbey M.","surname":"Jones","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Emily E.","surname":"Petersen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ellen H.","surname":"Lee","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Marion E.","surname":"Rice","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Andrea","surname":"Bingham","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Sascha R.","surname":"Ellington","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Nicole","surname":"Evert","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Sarah","surname":"Reagan-Steiner","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Titilope","surname":"Oduyebo","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Catherine M.","surname":"Brown","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Stacey","surname":"Martin","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Nina","surname":"Ahmad","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Julu","surname":"Bhatnagar","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jennifer","surname":"Macdonald","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Carolyn","surname":"Gould","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Anne D.","surname":"Fine","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Kara D.","surname":"Polen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Heather","surname":"Lake-Burger","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Christina L.","surname":"Hillard","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Noemi","surname":"Hall","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Mahsa M.","surname":"Yazdy","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Karnesha","surname":"Slaughter","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jamie N.","surname":"Sommer","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Alys","surname":"Adamski","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Meghan","surname":"Raycraft","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Shannon","surname":"Fleck-Derderian","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jyoti","surname":"Gupta","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Kimberly","surname":"Newsome","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Madelyn","surname":"Baez-Santiago","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Sally","surname":"Slavinski","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jennifer L.","surname":"White","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Cynthia A.","surname":"Moore","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Carrie K.","surname":"Shapiro-Mendoza","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Lyle","surname":"Petersen","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Coleen","surname":"Boyle","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Denise J.","surname":"Jamieson","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Dana","surname":"Meaney-Delman","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Margaret A.","surname":"Honein","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"NULL","surname":"NULL","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"NULL","surname":"NULL","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"NULL","surname":"NULL","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jennifer","surname":"Adair","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Irene","surname":"Ruberto","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Dirk T.","surname":"Haselow","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Lucille","surname":"Im","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Wendy","surname":"Jilek","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Monica S.","surname":"Lehmann","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Richard","surname":"Olney","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Charsey Cole","surname":"Porse","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Karen C.","surname":"Ramstrom","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Similoluwa","surname":"Sowunmi","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Natalie S.","surname":"Marzec","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Karin","surname":"Davis","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Brenda","surname":"Esponda-Morrison","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"M. Zachariah","surname":"Fraser","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Colleen Ann","surname":"O'Connor","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Wendy","surname":"Chung","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Folasuyi","surname":"Richardson","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Taylor","surname":"Sexton","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Meredith E.","surname":"Stocks","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Senait","surname":"Woldai","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Amanda M.","surname":"Bundek","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jennifer","surname":"Zambri","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Cynthia","surname":"Goldberg","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Leah","surname":"Eisenstein","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jennifer","surname":"Jackson","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Russell","surname":"Kopit","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Teresa","surname":"Logue","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Raphael","surname":"Mendoza","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Amanda","surname":"Feldpausch","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Teri","surname":"Graham","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Sylvia","surname":"Mann","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Sarah Y.","surname":"Park","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Kris Kelly","surname":"Carter","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Emily J.","surname":"Potts","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Taryn","surname":"Stevens","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Sean","surname":"Simonson","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Julius L.","surname":"Tonzel","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Shari","surname":"Davis","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Sara","surname":"Robinson","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Judie K.","surname":"Hyun","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Erin M.","surname":"Jenkins","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Monika","surname":"Piccardi","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Lawrence D.","surname":"Reid","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Julie E.","surname":"Dunn","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Cathleen A.","surname":"Higgins","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Angela E.","surname":"Lin","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Gerlinde S.","surname":"Munshi","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Kayleigh","surname":"Sandhu","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Sarah J.","surname":"Scotland","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Susan","surname":"Soliva","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Glenn","surname":"Copeland","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Kimberly A.","surname":"Signs","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Elizabeth","surname":"Schiffman","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Paul","surname":"Byers","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Sheryl","surname":"Hand","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Christine L.","surname":"Mulgrew","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jeff","surname":"Hamik","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Samir","surname":"Koirala","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Lisa A.","surname":"Ludwig","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Carolyn Rose","surname":"Fredette","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Kristin","surname":"Garafalo","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Karen","surname":"Worthington","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Abubakar","surname":"Ropri","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Julius Nchangtachi","surname":"Ade","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Zahra S.","surname":"Alaali","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Debra","surname":"Blog","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Scott J.","surname":"Brunt","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Patrick","surname":"Bryant","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Amy E.","surname":"Burns","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Steven","surname":"Bush","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Kyle","surname":"Carson","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Amy B.","surname":"Dean","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Valerie","surname":"Demarest","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Elizabeth M.","surname":"Dufort","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Alan P.","surname":"Dupuis II","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ann","surname":"Sullivan-Frohm","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Andrea Marias","surname":"Furuya","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Meghan","surname":"Fuschino","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Viola H.","surname":"Glaze","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jacquelin","surname":"Griffin","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Christina","surname":"Hidalgo","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Karen E.","surname":"Kulas","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Daryl M.","surname":"Lamson","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Lou Ann","surname":"Lance","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"William T.","surname":"Lee","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ronald","surname":"Limberger","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Patricia S.","surname":"Many","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Mary J.","surname":"Marchewka","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Brenda Elizabeth","surname":"Naizby","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"MaryJo","surname":"Polfleit","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Michael","surname":"Popowich","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Tabassum","surname":"Rahman","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Timothy","surname":"Rem","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Amy E.","surname":"Robbins","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jemma V.","surname":"Rowlands","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Chantelle","surname":"Seaver","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Kimberley A.","surname":"Seward","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Lou","surname":"Smith","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Inderbir","surname":"Sohi","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Kirsten","surname":"St. George","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Maria I.","surname":"Souto","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Rachel Elizabeth","surname":"Wester","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Susan J.","surname":"Wong","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Li","surname":"Zeng","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Joel","surname":"Ackelsberg","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Byron","surname":"Alex","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Vennus","surname":"Ballen","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jennifer","surname":"Baumgartner","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Danielle","surname":"Bloch","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Sandhya","surname":"Clark","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Erin","surname":"Conners","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Hannah","surname":"Cooper","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Alexander","surname":"Davidson","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Catherine","surname":"Dentinger","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Bisram","surname":"Deocharan","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Andrea","surname":"DeVito","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jie","surname":"Fu","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Gili","surname":"Hrusa","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Maryam","surname":"Iqbal","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Martha","surname":"Iwamoto","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Lucretia","surname":"Jones","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Hannah","surname":"Kubinson","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Maura","surname":"Lash","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Marcelle","surname":"Layton","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Christopher T.","surname":"Lee","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Dakai","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Emily","surname":"McGibbon","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Morgan","surname":"Moy","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Stephanie","surname":"Ngai","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Hilary B.","surname":"Parton","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Eric","surname":"Peterson","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jose","surname":"Poy","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jennifer","surname":"Rakeman","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Alaina","surname":"Stoute","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Corinne","surname":"Thompson","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Don","surname":"Weiss","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Emily","surname":"Westheimer","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ann","surname":"Winters","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Mohammad","surname":"Younis","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ronna L.","surname":"Chan","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Laura Jean","surname":"Cronquist","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Lisa","surname":"Caton","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Leah","surname":"Lind","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Kumar","surname":"Nalluswami","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Dana","surname":"Perella","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Diane S.","surname":"Brady","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Michael","surname":"Gosciminski","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Patricia","surname":"McAuley","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Daniel","surname":"Drociuk","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Vinita","surname":"Leedom","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Brian","surname":"Witrick","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jan","surname":"Bollock","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Marie Bottomley","surname":"Hartel","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Loraine Swanson","surname":"Lucinski","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Morgan","surname":"McDonald","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Angela M.","surname":"Miller","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Tori Armand","surname":"Ponson","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Laura","surname":"Price","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Amy E.","surname":"Nance","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Dallin","surname":"Peterson","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Sally","surname":"Cook","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Brennan","surname":"Martin","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hanna","surname":"Oltean","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jillian","surname":"Neary","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Melissa A.","surname":"Baker","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Kathy","surname":"Cummons","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Katie","surname":"Bryan","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Kathryn E.","surname":"Arnold","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Annelise C.","surname":"Arth","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Brigid C.","surname":"Bollweg","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Janet D.","surname":"Cragan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"April L.","surname":"Dawson","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Amy M.","surname":"Denison","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Eric J.","surname":"Dziuban","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Lindsey","surname":"Estetter","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Luciana","surname":"Silva-Flannery","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Rebecca J.","surname":"Free","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Romeo R.","surname":"Galang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Joy","surname":"Gary","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Cynthia S.","surname":"Goldsmith","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Caitlin","surname":"Green","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Gillian L.","surname":"Hale","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Heather M.","surname":"Hayes","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Irogue","surname":"Igbinosa","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"M. Kelly","surname":"Keating","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Sumaiya","surname":"Khan","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Shin Y.","surname":"Kim","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Margaret","surname":"Lampe","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Amanda","surname":"Lewis","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Cara","surname":"Mai","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Roosecelis Brasil","surname":"Martines","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Brooke","surname":"Miers","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jazmyn","surname":"Moore","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Atis","surname":"Muehlenbachs","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"John","surname":"Nahabedian","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Amanda","surname":"Panella","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Vaunita","surname":"Parihar","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Mitesh M.","surname":"Patel","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"D. Brett","surname":"Rabeneck","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Sonja A.","surname":"Rasmussen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jana M.","surname":"Ritter","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Dominique C.","surname":"Rollin","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jeanine H.","surname":"Sanders","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Wun-Ju","surname":"Shieh","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Regina M.","surname":"Simeone","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Elizabeth L.","surname":"Simon","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"John R.","surname":"Sims","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Pamela J.","surname":"Spivey","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Helen","surname":"Talley-McRae","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Alphonse K.","surname":"Tshiwala","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Kelley","surname":"VanMaldeghem","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Laura","surname":"Viens","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Anne","surname":"Wainscott-Sargent","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Tonya","surname":"Williams","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Sherif","surname":"Zaki","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Epidemiological, microbiological and clinical data of traveller pregnant women returning from vector-borne endemic areas for Zika virus. Proceedings of the 10th European Congress on Tropical Medicine and International Health, Belgium.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1093/cid/cix588","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Guillain-Barre syndrome associated with Zika virus infection in Martinique in 2016: a prospective study.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.15585/mmwr.mm6623e1","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Pregnancy Outcomes After Maternal Zika Virus Infection During Pregnancy — U.S. Territories, January 1, 2016–April 25, 2017","abstract":"","id":"PMC5657842","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Centers for Disease Control and Prevention","authors":[{"firstname":"Carrie K.","surname":"Shapiro-Mendoza","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Marion E.","surname":"Rice","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Romeo R.","surname":"Galang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Anna C.","surname":"Fulton","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Kelley","surname":"VanMaldeghem","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Miguel Valencia","surname":"Prado","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Esther","surname":"Ellis","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Magele Scott","surname":"Anesi","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Regina M.","surname":"Simeone","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Emily E.","surname":"Petersen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Sascha R.","surname":"Ellington","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Abbey M.","surname":"Jones","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Tonya","surname":"Williams","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Sarah","surname":"Reagan-Steiner","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Janice","surname":"Perez-Padilla","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Carmen C.","surname":"Deseda","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Andrew","surname":"Beron","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Aifili John","surname":"Tufa","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Asher","surname":"Rosinger","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Nicole M.","surname":"Roth","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Caitlin","surname":"Green","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Stacey","surname":"Martin","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Camille Delgado","surname":"Lopez","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Leah","surname":"deWilde","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Mary","surname":"Goodwin","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"H. Pamela","surname":"Pagano","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Cara T.","surname":"Mai","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Carolyn","surname":"Gould","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Sherif","surname":"Zaki","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Leishla Nieves","surname":"Ferrer","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Michelle S.","surname":"Davis","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Eva","surname":"Lathrop","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Kara","surname":"Polen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Janet D.","surname":"Cragan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Megan","surname":"Reynolds","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Kimberly B.","surname":"Newsome","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Mariam Marcano","surname":"Huertas","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Julu","surname":"Bhatangar","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Alma Martinez","surname":"Quiñones","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"John F.","surname":"Nahabedian","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Laura","surname":"Adams","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Tyler M.","surname":"Sharp","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"W. Thane","surname":"Hancock","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Sonja A.","surname":"Rasmussen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Cynthia A.","surname":"Moore","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Denise J.","surname":"Jamieson","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jorge L.","surname":"Munoz-Jordan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Helentina","surname":"Garstang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Afeke","surname":"Kambui","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Carolee","surname":"Masao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Margaret A.","surname":"Honein","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Dana","surname":"Meaney-Delman","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"NULL","surname":"NULL","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"NULL","surname":"NULL","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"NULL","surname":"NULL","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Adriana","surname":"Rico","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Alba","surname":"Phippard","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Alexis B.","surname":"Peterson","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ana","surname":"Pomales","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Annelise C.","surname":"Arth","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"April","surname":"Dawson","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Araceli","surname":"Rey","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Argelia","surname":"Figueroa","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Audilis","surname":"Sanchez","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Brittany","surname":"Robinson","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Daniel B.","surname":"Williams","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Deborah L.","surname":"Dee","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Divia P.","surname":"Forbes","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Elizabeth C.","surname":"Ailes","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Frances","surname":"Marrero","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Gamola Z.","surname":"Fortenberry","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hilda","surname":"Razzaghi","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jean Y.","surname":"Ko","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jennifer N.","surname":"Lind","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Kenneth Lee","surname":"Dominguez","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Kristie","surname":"Clarke","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Maria","surname":"Flores","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Matthew S.","surname":"Biggerstaff","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Melissa","surname":"Danielson","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Monica","surname":"Molina","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Nicholas J.","surname":"Somerville","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Rachel","surname":"Blumenfeld","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Raegan A.","surname":"Tuff","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Rebecca J.","surname":"Free","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Sae-Rom","surname":"Chae","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Sara","surname":"Andrist","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Shin Y.","surname":"Kim","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Tanya L.","surname":"Williams","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Theresa A.","surname":"Harrington","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Tracy","surname":"Thomason","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Vikram","surname":"Krishnasamy","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Zika RNA persistence in blood and body fluids and clinical outcomes in infected blood donors. Proceedings of the AABB Annual Meeting 2017, United States.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.3201/eid2401.170979","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Zika Virus Testing and Outcomes during Pregnancy, Florida, USA, 2016","abstract":"Zika virus infection during pregnancy can lead to congenital Zika syndrome.\n Implementation of screening programs and interpretation of test results can be particularly challenging during ongoing local mosquitoborne transmission.\n We conducted a retrospective chart review of 2,327 pregnant women screened for Zika virus in Miami–Dade County, Florida, USA, during 2016. Of these, 86 had laboratory evidence of Zika virus infection; we describe 2 infants with probable congenital Zika syndrome.\n Delays in receipt of laboratory test results (median 42 days) occurred during the first month of local transmission.\n Odds of screening positive for Zika virus were higher for women without health insurance or who did not speak English.\n Our findings indicate the increase in screening for Zika virus can overwhelm hospital and public health systems, resulting in delayed receipt of results of screening and confirmatory tests and the potential to miss cases or delay diagnoses.\n","id":"PMC5749464","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Centers for Disease Control and Prevention","authors":[{"firstname":"Colette","surname":"Shiu","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Rebecca","surname":"Starker","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jaclyn","surname":"Kwal","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Michelle","surname":"Bartlett","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Anise","surname":"Crane","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Samantha","surname":"Greissman","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Naiomi","surname":"Gunaratne","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Meghan","surname":"Lardy","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Michelle","surname":"Picon","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Patricia","surname":"Rodriguez","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ivan","surname":"Gonzalez","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Christine L.","surname":"Curry","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.3201/eid2206.151080","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Heterogeneous and Dynamic Prevalence of Asymptomatic Influenza Virus Infections","abstract":"Extreme heterogeneity was found within and between influenza types, which should be considered in planning of mitigation campaigns.\n","id":"PMC4880086","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Centers for Disease Control and Prevention","authors":[{"firstname":"Luis","surname":"Furuya-Kanamori","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Mitchell","surname":"Cox","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Gabriel J.","surname":"Milinovich","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ricardo J. Soares","surname":"Magalhaes","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ian M.","surname":"Mackay","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Laith","surname":"Yakob","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.1371/journal.pone.0180220","date":"2017-06-12","title":"Risk of bias and confounding of observational studies of Zika virus infection: A scoping review of research protocols","abstract":"Introduction\nGiven the severity and impact of the current Zika virus (ZIKV) outbreak in the Americas, numerous countries have rushed to develop research studies to assess ZIKV and its potential health consequences.\n\n In an effort to ensure that studies are comprehensive, both internally and externally valid, and with reliable results, the World Health Organization, the Pan American Health Organization, Institut Pasteur, the networks of Fiocruz, the Consortia for the Standardization of Influenza Seroepidemiology (CONSISE) and the International Severe Acute Respiratory and Emerging Infection Consortium (ISARIC) have generated six standardized clinical and epidemiological research protocols and questionnaires to address key public health questions on ZIKV.\n\n\nMethods\nWe conducted a systematic search of ongoing study protocols related to ZIKV research.\n\n We analyzed the content of protocols of 32 cohort studies and 13 case control studies for systematic bias that could produce erroneous results.\n\n Additionally we aimed to characterize the risks of bias and confounding in observational studies related to ZIKV and to propose ways to minimize them, including the use of six newly standardized research protocols.\n\n\nResults\nObservational studies of ZIKV face an array of challenges, including measurement of exposure and outcomes (microcephaly and Guillain-Barré Syndrome).\n\n Potential confounders need to be measured where known and controlled for in the analysis.\n\n Selection bias due to non-random selection is a significant issue, particularly in the case-control design, and losses to follow-up is equally important for the cohort design.\n\n\nConclusion\nObservational research seeking to answer key questions on the ZIKV should consider these restrictions and take precautions to minimize bias in an effort to provide reliable and valid results.\n\n Utilization of the standardized research protocols developed by the WHO, PAHO, Institut Pasteur, and CONSISE will harmonize the key methodological aspects of each study design to minimize bias at different stages of the study.\n\n Biases need to be considered by researchers implementing the standardized protocols as well as by users of observational epidemiological studies of ZIKV.\n\n\n","id":"PMC5501456","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Public Library of Science","authors":[{"firstname":"Ludovic","surname":"Reveiz","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Michelle M.","surname":"Haby","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Michelle M.","surname":"Haby","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ruth","surname":"Martínez-Vega","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Carlos E.","surname":"Pinzón-Flores","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Vanessa","surname":"Elias","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Emma","surname":"Smith","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Emma","surname":"Smith","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Mariona","surname":"Pinart","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Nathalie","surname":"Broutet","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Francisco","surname":"Becerra-Posada","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Sylvain","surname":"Aldighieri","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Maria D.","surname":"Van Kerkhove","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Marcia Edilaine Lopes","surname":"Consolaro","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Marcia Edilaine Lopes","surname":"Consolaro","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Revised diagnostic testing for Zika, chikungunya, and dengue viruses in US public health laboratories. Atlanta: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention; 2016. Available from: https://stacks.cdc.gov/view/cdc/38149 [cited 2016 Feb 7].","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1007/s00381-017-3641-5","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Challenges for molecular and serological ZIKV infection confirmation.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/S2214-109X(16)30255-8","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Harmonisation of Zika virus research protocols to address key public health concerns.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Risk perceptions and health behavior","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[{"doi":"10.1371/journal.pone.0226483","date":"2019-11-26","title":"Risk perception and behavioral change during epidemics: Comparing models of individual and collective learning","abstract":"Modern societies are exposed to a myriad of risks ranging from disease to natural hazards and technological disruptions.\n Exploring how the awareness of risk spreads and how it triggers a diffusion of coping strategies is prominent in the research agenda of various domains.\n It requires a deep understanding of how individuals perceive risks and communicate about the effectiveness of protective measures, highlighting learning and social interaction as the core mechanisms driving such processes.\n Methodological approaches that range from purely physics-based diffusion models to data-driven environmental methods rely on agent-based modeling to accommodate context-dependent learning and social interactions in a diffusion process.\n Mixing agent-based modeling with data-driven machine learning has become popularity.\n However, little attention has been paid to the role of intelligent learning in risk appraisal and protective decisions, whether used in an individual or a collective process.\n The differences between collective learning and individual learning have not been sufficiently explored in diffusion modeling in general and in agent-based models of socio-environmental systems in particular.\n To address this research gap, we explored the implications of intelligent learning on the gradient from individual to collective learning, using an agent-based model enhanced by machine learning.\n Our simulation experiments showed that individual intelligent judgement about risks and the selection of coping strategies by groups with majority votes were outperformed by leader-based groups and even individuals deciding alone.\n Social interactions appeared essential for both individual learning and group learning.\n The choice of how to represent social learning in an agent-based model could be driven by existing cultural and social norms prevalent in a modeled society.\n","id":"PMC6944362","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Public Library of Science","authors":[{"firstname":"Shaheen A.","surname":"Abdulkareem","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ellen-Wien","surname":"Augustijn","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Ellen-Wien","surname":"Augustijn","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Tatiana","surname":"Filatova","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Katarzyna","surname":"Musial","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Yaseen T.","surname":"Mustafa","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Chiara","surname":"Poletto","email":"NULL","contributions":"3"},{"firstname":"Chiara","surname":"Poletto","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Chiara","surname":"Poletto","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"NULL","surname":"NULL","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"NULL","surname":"NULL","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1093/qje/qjx029","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Tuskegee and the health of black men","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1257/aer.20181446","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Does diversity matter for health? Experimental evidence from oakland","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/j.vaccine.2018.10.019","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Recent vaccine mandates in the United States, Europe and Australia: a comparative study","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1111/j.1468-0297.2006.01115.x","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Social networks and technology adoption in northern Mozambique","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"A simple model of herd behavior","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1136/bmj.c2220","date":"2010-04-11","title":"Improving immunisation coverage in rural India: clustered randomised controlled evaluation of immunisation campaigns with and without incentives","abstract":"Objective To assess the efficacy of modest non-financial incentives on immunisation rates in children aged 1-3 and to compare it with the effect of only improving the reliability of the supply of services.\n","id":"PMC2871989","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"BMJ Publishing Group Ltd.","authors":[{"firstname":"Abhijit Vinayak","surname":"Banerjee","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Esther","surname":"Duflo","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Rachel","surname":"Glennerster","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Dhruva","surname":"Kothari","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Imitation dynamics predict vaccinating behavior","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/j.vaccine.2011.05.028","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Wait and see&quot; vaccinating behavior during a pandemic: a game theoretic analysis","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Healthcare workers and influenza vaccination: an ERS-ESCMID Web-based survey","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"An integrated socio-economic analysis of innovation adoption: the case of Hybrid Cocoa in Ghana","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1371/journal.pone.0132562","date":"2015-06-16","title":"Going against the Herd: Psychological and Cultural Factors Underlying the ‘Vaccination Confidence Gap’","abstract":"By far the most common strategy used in the attempt to modify negative attitudes toward vaccination is to appeal to evidence-based reasoning.\n We argue, however, that focusing on science comprehension is inconsistent with one of the key facts of cognitive psychology: Humans are biased information processors and often engage in motivated reasoning.\n On this basis, we hypothesised that negative attitudes can be explained primarily by factors unrelated to the empirical evidence for vaccination; including some shared attitudes that also attract people to complementary and alternative medicine (CAM).\n In particular, we tested psychosocial factors associated with CAM endorsement in past research; including aspects of spirituality, intuitive (vs analytic) thinking styles, and the personality trait of openness to experience.\n These relationships were tested in a cross-sectional, stratified CATI survey (N = 1256, 624 Females).\n Whilst educational level and thinking style did not predict vaccination rejection, psychosocial factors including: preferring CAM to conventional medicine (OR .\n49, 95% CI .\n36–.\n66), endorsement of spirituality as a source of knowledge (OR .\n83, 95% CI .\n71–.\n96), and openness (OR .\n86, 95% CI .\n74–.\n99), all predicted negative attitudes to vaccination.\n Furthermore, for 9 of the 12 CAMs surveyed, utilisation in the last 12 months was associated with lower levels of vaccination endorsement.\n From this we suggest that vaccination scepticism appears to be the outcome of a particular cultural and psychological orientation leading to unwillingness to engage with the scientific evidence.\n Vaccination compliance might be increased either by building general confidence and understanding of evidence-based medicine, or by appealing to features usually associated with CAM, e.\ng.\n ‘strengthening your natural resistance to disease’.\n","id":"PMC4556675","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Public Library of Science","authors":[{"firstname":"Matthew","surname":"Browne","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Patricia","surname":"Thomson","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Matthew Justus","surname":"Rockloff","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Gordon","surname":"Pennycook","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"José César","surname":"Perales","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"José César","surname":"Perales","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Pandemic influenza A (H1N1) vaccination in The Netherlands: parental reasoning underlying child vaccination choices","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1177/0272989X13487946","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Vaccination, herd behavior, and herd immunity","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Social learning through networks: the adoption of new agricultural technologies in Ghana","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1080/13669877.2020.1758193","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Risk perceptions of COVID-19 around the world","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1146/annurev-economics-111809-125029","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Health behavior in developing countries","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/S0047-2727(96)01586-1","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Dynamic epidemiology and the market for vaccinations","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Imitation dynamics of vaccination behavior on social networks","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Are modern health worries, personality and attitudes to science associated with the use of complementary and alternative medicine?","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.2307/2527443","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Rational epidemics and their public control","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Disease eradication: private versus public vaccination","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1007/s10654-011-9577-2","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Trust in medical organizations predicts pandemic (H1N1) 2009 vaccination behavior and perceived efficacy of protection measures in the Swiss public","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"What should we do about vaccine hesitancy?","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1542/peds.114.1.e16","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Underimmunization among children: effects of vaccine safety concerns on immunization status","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1542/peds.2007-0538","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Parents with doubts about vaccines: which vaccines and reasons why","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1001/archinte.165.3.274","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Clinical effectiveness of influenza vaccination in persons younger than 65 years with high-risk medical conditions: the PRISMA study","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1007/s10654-020-00634-3","date":"2020-04-11","title":"Vaccine confidence in the time of COVID-19","abstract":"id='Par1'>In the early months of the COVID-19 epidemic, some have wondered if the force of this global experience will solve the problem of vaccine refusal that has vexed and preoccupied the global public health community for the last several decades.\n Drawing on historical and epidemiological analyses, we critique contemporary approaches to reducing vaccine hesitancy and articulate our notion of vaccine confidence as an expanded way of conceptualizing the problem and how to respond to it.\n Intervening on the rush of vaccine optimism we see pervading present discourse around the COVID-19 epidemic, we call for a re-imagination of the culture of public health and the meaning of vaccine safety regulations.\n Public confidence in vaccination programs depends on the work they do for the community—social, political, and moral as well as biological.\n The concept of public health and its programs must be broader than the delivery of the vaccine technology itself.\n The narrative work and policy actions entailed in actualizing such changes will, we expect, be essential in achieving a true vaccine confidence, however the public reacts to the specific vaccine that may be developed for COVID-19.","id":"PMC7174145","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Springer Netherlands","authors":[{"firstname":"Emily A.","surname":"Harrison","email":"harrison@post.harvard.edu","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Julia W.","surname":"Wu","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Julia W.","surname":"Wu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1186/1471-2458-10-174","date":"2010-03-30","title":"Behavioural intentions in response to an influenza pandemic","abstract":"Background\nLittle is known regarding which behavioural responses can be expected if an influenza pandemic were to occur.\n\n\nMethods\nA survey comprising questions based on risk perception theories, in particular PMT, was conducted with a Dutch sample.\n\n\nResults\nAlthough fear that an influenza pandemic may occur was high, participants do not feel well informed.\n\n General practitioners and local health authorities were considered trustworthy sources of information and the information considered most urgent pertained to which protective measures should be taken.\n\n Participants reported an intention to comply with recommendations regarding protective measures.\n\n However, response and self efficacy were low.\n\n Maladaptive behaviours can be expected.\n\n Increasing numbers of ill individuals and school closures are also expected to lead to a decreased work force.\n\n Participants indicated wanting antiviral drugs even if the supply were to be insufficient.\n\n\nConclusions\nMessages regarding health protective behaviours from local health authorities should anticipate the balance between overreacting and underreacting.\n\n Also, when protective recommendations from health professionals conflict with company policies, it is unclear how employees will react.\n\n\n","id":"PMC2861057","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"BioMed Central","authors":[{"firstname":"Gerjo","surname":"Kok","email":"g.kok@maastrichtuniversity.nl","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ruud","surname":"Jonkers","email":"r.jonkers@rescon.nl","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Roger","surname":"Gelissen","email":"r.gelissen@rescon.nl","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ree","surname":"Meertens","email":"r.meertens@maastrichtuniversity.nl","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Herman","surname":"Schaalma","email":"g.kok@maastrichtuniversity.nl","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Onno","surname":"de Zwart","email":"dezwarto@ggd.rotterdam.nl","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.1186/s13584-022-00527-8","date":"2022-03-08","title":"Understanding the phases of vaccine hesitancy during the COVID-19 pandemic","abstract":"id='Par1'>Vaccine hesitancy is an important feature of every vaccination and COVID-19 vaccination is not an exception.\n During the COVID-19 pandemic, vaccine hesitancy has exhibited different phases and has shown both temporal and spatial variation in these phases.\n This has likely arisen due to varied socio-behavioural characteristics of humans and their response towards COVID 19 pandemic and its vaccination strategies.\n This commentary highlights that there are multiple phases of vaccine hesitancy: Vaccine Eagerness, Vaccine Ignorance, Vaccine Resistance, Vaccine Confidence, Vaccine Complacency and Vaccine Apathy.\n Though the phases seem to be sequential, they may co-exist at the same time in different regions and at different times in the same region.\n This may be attributed to several factors influencing the phases of vaccine hesitancy.\n The complexities of the societal reactions need to be understood in full to be addressed better.\n There is a dire need of different strategies of communication to deal with the various nuances of all of the phases.\n To address of vaccine hesitancy, an understanding of the societal reactions leading to various phases of vaccine hesitancy is of utmost importance.\n","id":"PMC8939479","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"BioMed Central","authors":[{"firstname":"Dewesh","surname":"Kumar","email":"dr.dewesh@gmail.com","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Mansi","surname":"Mathur","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Mansi","surname":"Mathur","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Nitesh","surname":"Kumar","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Rishabh Kumar","surname":"Rana","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Rahul Chandra","surname":"Tiwary","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Pankaja Ravi","surname":"Raghav","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Amarendra","surname":"Kumar","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Neelesh","surname":"Kapoor","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Medha","surname":"Mathur","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Tanya","surname":"Tanu","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Soumitra","surname":"Sethia","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Chandrakant","surname":"Lahariya","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"}]},{"doi":"10.1007/s12098-020-03359-z","date":"2020-05-18","title":"Health &amp; Wellness Centers to Strengthen Primary Health Care in India: Concept, Progress and Ways Forward","abstract":"id='Par1'>In February 2018, the Indian Government announced Ayushman Bharat Program (ABP) with two components of (a) Health and Wellness Centres (HWCs), to deliver comprehensive primary health care (PHC) services to the entire population and (b) Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana (PMJAY) for improving access to hospitalization services at secondary and tertiary level health facilities for bottom 40% of total population.\n The HWC component of ABP aims to upgrade and make 150,000 existing Government Primary health care facilities functional by December 2022. The first HWC was launched on 14 April 2018 and by 31 March 2020, a total 38,595 AB-HWCs were operational across India.\n This article documents and analyses the key design aspects of HWCs, against core components of PHC &amp; the health system functions.\n The article reviews the progress and analyses the potential of HWCs to strengthen PHC services and therefore, advance Universal Health Coverage in India.\n Challenges emerged from COVID-19 pandemic &amp; learnings thus far has also been analyzed to guide the scale up of HWCs in India.\n It has been argued that effectiveness and success of HWCs will be dependent upon a rapid transition from policy to accelerated implementation stage; focus on both supply and demand side interventions, dedicated and increased funding by both union and state governments; appropriate use of information and communication technology; engagement of community and civil society and other stakeholders, focus on effective and functional referral linkages; attention on public health services &amp; population health interventions; sustained political will &amp; monitoring and evaluation for the mid-term corrections, amongst other.\n Experience from India may have lessons and learnings for other low and middle-income countries to strengthen primary healthcare in journey towards universal health coverage.\n","id":"PMC7340764","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Springer India","authors":[{"firstname":"Chandrakant","surname":"Lahariya","email":"c.lahariya@gmail.com","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1016/j.socscimed.2020.113375","date":"1970-01-01","title":"HPV Vaccine Promotion: the church as an agent of change","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/S0140-6736(11)60678-8","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Addressing the vaccine confidence gap","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Identification of endogenous social effects: the reflection problem","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1111/j.1574-0862.2009.00393.x","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The impact of social networks on hybrid seed adoption in India","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Perceived seriousness of seasonal and A (H1N1) influenzas attitudes toward vaccination, and vaccine uptake among US adults: does the source of information matter?","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1111/j.1468-0262.2004.00481.x","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Worms: identifying impacts on education and health in the presence of treatment externalities","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1186/s12889-020-09892-y","date":"2020-11-15","title":"The impacts of knowledge, risk perception, emotion and information on citizens’ protective behaviors during the outbreak of COVID-19: a cross-sectional study in China","abstract":"Background\nid='Par1'>Individual protective behaviors play an important role in the control of the spread of infectious diseases.\n\n This study aimed to investigate the adoption of protective behaviors by Chinese citizens amid the COVID-19 outbreak and its associated factors.\n\n\nMethods\nid='Par2'>An online cross-sectional survey was conducted from 22 January to 14 February 2020 through Wenjuanxing platform, measuring their knowledge, risk perception, negative emotion, response to official communication, and protective behaviors in relation to COVID-19. A total of 3008 people completed the questionnaire, of which 2845 were valid questionnaires.\n\n\nResults\nid='Par3'>On average, 71% of respondents embraced protective behaviors.\n\n Those who made no error in the knowledge test (AOR?=?1.77, p?&lt;?0.001) perceived the high severity of the epidemic (AOR?=?1.90, p?&lt;?0.001), had high negative emotion (AOR?=?1.36, p?=?0.005), reported good health (AOR?=?1.94, p?&lt;?0.001), paid high attention to the governmental media (AOR?=?4.16, p?&lt;?0.001) and trusted the governmental media (AOR?=?1.97, p?&lt;?0.001) were more likely to embrace protective behaviors after adjustments for variations in potential confounding factors.\n\n Women and older people were also more likely to embrace protective behaviors.\n\n No regional or educational differences were found in the adoption of protective behaviors.\n\n\nConclusion\nid='Par4'>The majority of Chinese citizens embraced protective behaviors.\n\n Higher levels of protective behaviors are associated with higher knowledge, perceived severity, negative emotion, and attention to and trust in the official governmental media.\n\n Official governmental communication is the largest single predictor of protective behaviors.\n\n\nSupplementary Information\nThe online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1186/s12889-020-09892-y.\n\n\n","id":"PMC7681179","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"BioMed Central","authors":[{"firstname":"Liangwen","surname":"Ning","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jinyu","surname":"Niu","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Xuejing","surname":"Bi","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Chao","surname":"Yang","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ze","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Qunhong","surname":"Wu","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ning","surname":"Ning","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Libo","surname":"Liang","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Aishu","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Yanhua","surname":"Hao","email":"hyhyjw@126.com","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Lijun","surname":"Gao","email":"gg73@163.com","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Lijun","surname":"Gao","email":"gg73@163.com","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Chaojie","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"High vaccination rates for seasonal and pandemic (A/H1N1 influenza among healthcare workers in Dutch general practice","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1007/s10654-020-00675-8","date":"2020-08-05","title":"Mistrust in biomedical research and vaccine hesitancy: the forefront challenge in the battle against COVID-19 in Italy","abstract":"id='Par1'>Researchers have been working quickly and collaboratively for the development of vaccines against the COVID-19 virus.\n The effort of the scientific community in searching a vaccine for COVID-19 may be hampered by a diffused vaccine hesitancy.\n Two waves of data collection on representative samples of the Italian population (during the “first” and “second” phase of the Italian Covid-19 mitigation strategy) were conducted to understand citizens’ perceptions and behaviors about preventive behaviors willingness to vaccine for COVID-19. Our study shows that willingness to COVID-19 vaccine is correlated to trust in research and in vaccines, which decreased between phase 1 and phase 2 of the Italian pandemic.\n According to the results of our study, the proportion of citizens that seem to be intentioned to get the Covid-19 vaccine is probably too small to effectively stop the spreading of the disease.\n This requires to foster a climate of respectful mutual trust between science and society, where scientific knowledge is not only preached but also cultivated and sustained thanks to the emphatic understanding of citizens worries, needs of reassurance and health expectations.\n","id":"PMC7431109","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Springer Netherlands","authors":[{"firstname":"Lorenzo","surname":"Palamenghi","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Serena","surname":"Barello","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Stefania","surname":"Boccia","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Guendalina","surname":"Graffigna","email":"guendalina.graffigna@unicatt.it","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Immunization status and sociodemographic characteristics: the mediating role of beliefs, attitudes, and perceived control","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Public willingness to take a vaccine or drug under emergency use authorization during the 2009 H1N1 pandemic","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1098/rsif.2008.0271","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The effect of opinion clustering on disease outbreaks","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1007/BF00055564","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Status quo bias in decision making","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1371/journal.pone.0010199","date":"2010-03-25","title":"Low Acceptability of A/H1N1 Pandemic Vaccination in French Adult Population: Did Public Health Policy Fuel Public Dissonance?","abstract":"Background\nIn July 2009, French public health authorities embarked in a mass vaccination campaign against A/H1N1 2009 pandemic-influenza.\n\n We explored the attitudes and behaviors of the general population toward pandemic vaccination.\n\n\nMethodology/Principal Findings\nWe conducted a cross-sectional online survey among 2,253 French representative adults aged 18 to 64 from November 17 to 25, 2009 (completion rate: 93.8%).\n\n The main outcome was the acceptability of A/H1N1 vaccination as defined by previous receipt or intention to get vaccinated (“Yes, certainly”, “Yes, probably”).\n\n Overall 17.0% (CI 95%, 15.5% to 18.7%) of respondents accepted A/H1N1 vaccination.\n\n Independent factors associated with acceptability included: male sex (p?=?.\n\n0001); older age (p?=?.\n\n002); highest or lowest level of education (p?=?.\n\n016); non-clerical occupation (p?=?.\n\n011); having only one child (p?=?.\n\n008); and having received seasonal flu vaccination in prior 3 years (p&lt;.\n\n0001).\n\n Acceptability was also significantly higher among pregnant women (37.9%) and other at risk groups with chronic diseases (34.8%) (p?=?.\n\n002).\n\n Only 35.5% of respondents perceived A/H1N1 influenza illness as a severe disease and 12.7% had experienced A/H1N1 cases in their close relationships with higher acceptability (p&lt;.\n\n0001 and p?=?.\n\n006, respectively).\n\n In comparison to 26.0% respondents who did not consult their primary care physician, acceptability was significantly higher among 8.0% respondents who were formally advised to get vaccinated, and lower among 63.7% respondents who were not advised to get vaccinated (respectively: 15.8%, 59.5% and 11.7%- p&lt;.\n\n0001).\n\n Among respondents who refused vaccination, 71.2% expressed concerns about vaccine safety.\n\n\nConclusions/Significance\nOur survey occurred one week before the peak of the pandemic in France.\n\n We found that alarming public health messages aiming at increasing the perception of risk severity were counteracted by daily personal experience which did not confirm the threat, while vaccine safety was a major issue.\n\n This dissonance may have been amplified by having not involved primary care physicians in the mass vaccination campaign.\n\n\n","id":"PMC2856629","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Public Library of Science","authors":[{"firstname":"Michaël","surname":"Schwarzinger","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Rémi","surname":"Flicoteaux","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Sébastien","surname":"Cortarenoda","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Yolande","surname":"Obadia","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jean-Paul","surname":"Moatti","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Wenjun","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Wenjun","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1111/j.1467-9566.2012.01525.x","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Why the French did not choose to panic: a dynamic analysis of the public response to the influenza pandemic","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1177/00333549111260S215","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Parental delay or refusal of vaccine doses, childhood vaccination coverage at 24 months of age, and the Health Belief Model","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Individual differences in reasoning: implications for the rationality debate?","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1056/NEJMp1005102","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The public's response to the 2009 H1N1 influenza pandemic","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Toward a positive theory of consumer choice","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1126/science.185.4157.1124","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Judgment under uncertainty: heuristics and biases","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1080/14760584.2020.1825945","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Restoring confidence in vaccines in the COVID-19 era","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Seasonal and pandemic A (H1N1) 2009 influenza vaccination coverage and attitudes among health-care workers in a Spanish University Hospital","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Parental vaccine concerns, information source, and choice of alternative immunization schedules","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1098/rsos.200742","date":"2020-09-07","title":"Changes in risk perception and self-reported protective behaviour during the first week of the COVID-19 pandemic in the United States","abstract":"Efforts to change behaviour are critical in minimizing the spread of highly transmissible pandemics such as COVID-19. However, it is unclear whether individuals are aware of disease risk and alter their behaviour early in the pandemic.\n We investigated risk perception and self-reported engagement in protective behaviours in 1591 United States-based individuals cross-sectionally and longitudinally over the first week of the pandemic.\n Subjects demonstrated growing awareness of risk and reported engaging in protective behaviours with increasing frequency but underestimated their risk of infection relative to the average person in the country.\n Social distancing and hand washing were most strongly predicted by the perceived probability of personally being infected.\n However, a subgroup of individuals perceived low risk and did not engage in these behaviours.\n Our results highlight the importance of risk perception in early interventions during large-scale pandemics.\n","id":"PMC7540790","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"The Royal Society","authors":[{"firstname":"Toby","surname":"Wise","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Tomislav D.","surname":"Zbozinek","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Tomislav D.","surname":"Zbozinek","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Giorgia","surname":"Michelini","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Cindy C.","surname":"Hagan","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Dean","surname":"Mobbs","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.1016/j.socscimed.2014.04.018","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Attitudes to vaccination: a critical review","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Use of mass media campaigns to change health behaviour","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Using theory to design evaluations of communication campaigns: the case of the National Youth Anti-Drug Media Campaign","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The community-based model of life style intervention trials","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Community surveillance of cardiovascular diseases in the Stanford Five-City Project. Methods and initial experience","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Effects of the National Youth Anti-Drug Media Campaign on youths","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Evaluation design for public health communication programs","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"How to prevent 100 million deaths from tobacco","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Social inequalities in male mortality, and in male mortality from smoking: indirect estimation from national death rates in England and Wales, Poland, and North America","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The role of the media in promoting and reducing tobacco use","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Mass media interventions for smoking cessation in adults","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Impact of tobacco control policies and mass media campaigns on monthly adult smoking prevalence","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The influence of the national truth campaign on smoking initiation","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Effects of different types of antismoking ads on reducing disparities in smoking cessation among socioeconomic subgroups","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The outcome consequences of defunding the Minnesota youth tobacco-use prevention program","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Consequences of dramatic reductions in state tobacco control funds: Florida, 1998-2000","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Media campaigns to promote smoking cessation among socioeconomically disadvantaged populations: What do we know, what do we need to learn, and what should we do now?","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Nine-year prospective relationship between potential smoking cessation and children's daily smoking","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Antismoking advertisements for youths: an independent evaluation of health, counteradvertising and industry approaches","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Getting to the truth: evaluating national tobacco countermarketing campaigns","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Effect of televised, tobacco company-funded smoking prevention advertising on youth smoking-related beliefs, intentions, and behavior","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Global burden of disease and injury and economic cost attributable to alcohol use and alcohol-use disorders","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Preventive interventions addressing underage drinking: state of the evidence and steps toward public health impact","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of policies and programmes to reduce the harm caused by alcohol","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Social norms interventions to reduce alcohol misuse in university or college students","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"A critical analysis of &quot;moderation&quot; advertising sponsored by the beer industry: are &quot;responsible drinking&quot; commercials done responsibly?","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Are &quot;drink responsibly&quot; alcohol campaigns strategically ambiguous?","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Assessing the impact of antidrug advertising on adolescent drug consumption: results from a behavioral economic model","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Drugs, money, and graphic ads: a critical review of the Montana Meth Project","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Effects of the Office of National Drug Control Policy's Marijuana Initiative Campaign on high-sensation-seeking adolescents","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"National Youth Anti-Drug Media Campaign and school-based drug prevention: evidence for a synergistic effect in ALERT Plus","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Interventions designed to increase adult fruit and vegetable intake can be effective: a systematic review of the literature","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"A site-specific literature review of policy and environmental interventions that promote physical activity and nutrition for cardiovascular health: what works?","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Evaluation of a national physical activity intervention for children: VERB  campaign, 2002-2004","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"A community intervention reduces BMI z-score in children: Shape Up Somerville first year results","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Reducing unhealthy weight gain in children through community capacity-building: results of a quasi-experimental intervention program, Be Active Eat Well","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"A review of five major community-based cardiovascular disease prevention programs. Part II: intervention strategies, evaluation methods, and results","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Community-based health intervention trials: an overview of methodological issues","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The contributions of public health education toward the reduction of cardiovascular disease mortality: experiences from the National High Blood Pressure Education Program","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"A meta-analysis of the effect of mediated health communication campaigns on behavior change in the United States","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Shaping the context of health: a review of environmental and policy approaches in the prevention of chronic diseases","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"A comparison of different approaches to promote community-wide dietary change","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Changing the way people think about health-enhancing physical activity: do mass media campaigns have a role?","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Physical activity intervention studies: what we know and what we need to know: a scientific statement from the American Heart Association Council on Nutrition, Physical Activity, and Metabolism (Subcommittee on Physical Activity); Council on Cardiovascular Disease in the Young; and the Interdisciplinary Working Group on Quality of Care and Outcomes Research","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The effectiveness of interventions to increase physical activity. A systematic review","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Interventions to increase walking behavior","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Physical activity promotion through the mass media: inception, production, transmission and consumption","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"A review of eHealth interventions for physical activity and dietary behavior change","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Environmental influences on eating and physical activity","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Public health obesity-related TV advertising: lessons learned from tobacco","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Systematic review of the effectiveness of mass communication programs to change HIV/AIDS-related behaviors in developing countries","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Evaluating AIDS public education in Europe; a cross-national comparison","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Family planning: the unfinished agenda","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Mass media and fertility change","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Sexual abstinence, contraception, and condom use by young African women: a secondary analysis of survey data","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"A 10-year systematic review of HIV/AIDS mass communication campaigns: Have we made progress?","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"HIV/AIDS communication campaigns: progress and prospects","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Client-directed interventions to increase community demand for breast, cervical, and colorectal cancer screening a systematic review","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"A review of cervical cancer screening intervention research: implications for public health programs and future research","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"A systematic literature review of the effectiveness of community-based strategies to increase cervical cancer screening","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Encouraging the right women to attend for cervical cancer screening: results from a targeted television campaign in Victoria, Australia","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Lessons learned from community-based cancer screening intervention research","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Mass media campaign improves cervical screening across all socio-economic groups","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Interventions to prevent skin cancer by reducing exposure to ultraviolet radiation: a systematic review","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Melanoma prevention and screening","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Weekend sun protection and sunburn in Australia trends (1987-2002) and association with SunSmart television advertising","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Health promotion programs for melanoma prevention: screw or spring?","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"How many child deaths can we prevent this year?","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Where and why are 10 million children dying every year?","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Communication in support of child survival: evidence and explanations from eight countries","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Improving vaccination coverage in urban areas through a health communication campaign: the 1990 Philippine experience","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Measuring the cost-effectiveness of a national health communication program in rural Bangladesh","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The effects and costs of expanding the coverage of immunisation services in developing countries: a systematic literature review","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"An assessment of research on breastfeeding promotion strategies in developing countries","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The impact of the Healthcom mass media campaign on timely initiation of breastfeeding in Jordan","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Impact of a community-based integrated management of childhood illnesses (IMCI) programme in Gegharkunik, Armenia","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"International trends in sudden infant death syndrome: stabilization of rates requires further action","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Effects of professional and media warnings about the association between aspirin use in children and Reye's syndrome","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"What are the most effective ways of improving population health through transport interventions? Evidence from systematic reviews","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Effectiveness of mass media campaigns for reducing drinking and driving and alcohol-involved crashes: a systematic review","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Effectiveness of designated driver programs for reducing alcohol-impaired driving: a systematic review","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Reviews of evidence regarding interventions to increase the use of safety belts","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Increasing seat belt use in North Carolina","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Ninety five percent: an evaluation of law, policy, and programs to promote seat belt use in Washington state","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The effect of The World Transplant Games on transplant rates in five continents","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The intersection of conversation, cognitions, and campaigns: The social representation of organ donation","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Public health works: blood donation in urban China","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"A pool of repeat blood donors can be generated with little expense to the blood center in sub-Saharan Africa","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Framing public policy and prevention of chronic violence in American youths","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Efficacy of a randomized trial of a community and school-based anti-violence media intervention among small-town middle school youth","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Child maltreatment prevention: a systematic review of reviews","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Population-based prevention of child maltreatment: the U.S. Triple p system population trial","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Empowering bystanders to prevent campus violence against women: a preliminary evaluation of a poster campaign","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Suicide prevention strategies: a systematic review","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Patient delay in responding to symptoms of possible heart attack: can we reduce time to care?","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"A 10-year retrospective of research in health mass media campaigns: where do we go from here?","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The effectiveness of mass communication to change public behavior","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Media advocacy: A strategy for advancing policy and promoting health","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Lessons learned from public health mass media campaigns: marketing health in a crowded media world","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Neurological syndrome, congenital malformations, and Zika virus infection. Implications for public health in the Americas","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Possible association between Zika virus infection and microcephaly:Brazil, 2015","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Zika virus status report: Neurological syndrome and congenital anomalies","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Microcephaly and Zika virus: A clinical and epidemiological analysis of the current outbreak in Brazil","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Pregnancy management in the context of Zika virus infection","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Zika virus and birth defects:reviewing the evidence for causality","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Zika virus infection - Brazil and Colombia","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Zika virus","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Barriers in access to health care in managed competence models: A case study in Colombia","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Resolucion 0429 de 2016","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Resolucion No. 3280 de 2018","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"High out-of-pocket medical spending among the poor and elderly in nine developed countries","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]}]},{"doi":"10.1016/j.wombi.2020.09.013","date":"2020-09-18","title":"The impact of planning for COVID-19 on private practising midwives in Australia","abstract":"Problem\nThe COVID-19 pandemic response has required planning for the safe provision of care.\n\n In Australia, privately practising midwives are an important group to consider as they often struggle for acceptance by the health system.\n\n\nBackground\nThere are around 200 Endorsed Midwives eligible to practice privately in Australia (privately practising midwives) who provide provide the full continuum of midwifery care.\n\n\nAim\nTo explore the experience of PPMs in relation to the response to planning for the COVID-19 pandemic.\n\n\nMethods\nAn online survey was distributed through social media and personal networks to privately practising midwives in Australia in April 2020.\nResults\nOne hundred and three privately practising midwives responded to the survey.\n\n The majority (82%) felt very, or well informed, though nearly half indicated they would value specifically tailored information especially from professional bodies.\n\n One third (35%) felt prepared regarding PPE but many lacked masks, gowns and gloves, hand sanitiser and disinfectant.\n\n Sixty four percent acquired PPE through social media community sharing sites, online orders, hardware stores or made masks.\n\n Sixty-eight percent of those with collaborative arrangements with local hospitals reported a lack of support and were unable to support women who needed transfer to hospital.\n\n The majority (93%) reported an increase in the number of enquiries relating to homebirth.\n\n\nConclusion\nPrivately practising midwives were resourceful, sought out information and were prepared.\n\n Support from the hospital sector was not always present.\n\n Lessons need to be learned especially in terms of integration, support, education and being included as part of the broader health system.\n\n\n","id":"PMC7510523","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"Published by Elsevier Ltd on behalf of Australian College of Midwives.","authors":[{"firstname":"Caroline S.E.","surname":"Homer","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":" Miranda","surname":"Davies-Tuck","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":" Hannah G.","surname":"Dahlen","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":" Vanessa L.","surname":"Scarf","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}],"Full Text":"The impact of planning for COVID-19 on private practising midwives in Australia\nProblem\nThe COVID-19 pandemic response has required planning for the safe provision of care. In Australia, privately practising midwives are an important group to consider as they often struggle for acceptance by the health system.\nBackground\nThere are around 200 Endorsed Midwives eligible to practice privately in Australia (privately practising midwives) who provide provide the full continuum of midwifery care.\nAim\nTo explore the experience of PPMs in relation to the response to planning for the COVID-19 pandemic.\nMethods\nAn online survey was distributed through social media and personal networks to privately practising midwives in Australia in April 2020.\nResults\nOne hundred and three privately practising midwives responded to the survey. The majority (82%) felt very, or well informed, though nearly half indicated they would value specifically tailored information especially from professional bodies. One third (35%) felt prepared regarding PPE but many lacked masks, gowns and gloves, hand sanitiser and disinfectant. Sixty four percent acquired PPE through social media community sharing sites, online orders, hardware stores or made masks. Sixty-eight percent of those with collaborative arrangements with local hospitals reported a lack of support and were unable to support women who needed transfer to hospital. The majority (93%) reported an increase in the number of enquiries relating to homebirth.\nConclusion\nPrivately practising midwives were resourceful, sought out information and were prepared. Support from the hospital sector was not always present. Lessons need to be learned especially in terms of integration, support, education and being included as part of the broader health system.\nStatement of significance\nThe issue\nPrivately practising midwives are often not seen as a mainstream service and so are potentially missed in planning when public health emergencies like the COVID-19 pandemic occur.\nWhat is already known\nPrivately practising midwives continue to struggle for recognition and access to hospitals in Australia and it is unclear how they were affected by the COVID-19 pandemic.\nWhat this paper adds\nDespite the challenges privately practising midwives were resourceful in accessing personal protection equipment.\nAll health care providers, including those in primary-level services, need to be involved in future pandemic planning, and collaboration and support through the health services needs to be provided across the health system.\nAspects specific to homebirth must be considered in future clinical guidance and advice, to ensure that an integrated approach is undertaken.\nIntroduction\nThe novel Coronavirus (SARS-CoV-2) was first identified in December 2019, and has spread rapidly around the globe, crippling health systems and significantly impacting front line health workers. The World Health Organization (WHO) described COVID-19 as a public health emergency of international concern on 30 January 2020 and a pandemic on the 11 March 2020. In Australia, the Commonwealth Government's coronavirus emergency response plan was triggered in late February and a suite of approaches, including travel restrictions, quarantine measures and physical distancing were announced to both suppress the spread of the virus and allow health systems to prepare. Maternity services in all countries have been impacted by the COVID-19 response including the implementation of telehealth, social distancing, use of personal protective equipment for clinical care and reduced visitors and support people. In the middle of the focus on COVID-19, women and families are still having babies and having to navigate a complex health system.\nThe most common reason for hospital admission in Australia is pregnancy and childbirth. More than 300,000 babies are born in Australia each year and women attend more than two million pregnancy care visits annually. Maternity services underwent rapid transformation in the delivery of pregnancy care to reduce the risk of transmission in both women and maternity care workers in response to the COVID 19 pandemic. On both social and mainstream media, women expressed increasing anxiety about these changes including concerns around their risk of contracting COVID-19, changes to intrapartum care, not having support people around them and potential separation from their baby. In response to this, there seems to have been an increase in women interested in homebirth across the country, mirroring international observations. The Australian College of Midwives reported many additional calls relating to home births since March and private midwives in Australia have reported increased numbers of women requesting homebirth. In Victoria, one publicly funded homebirth model has tripled the number of homebirths provided between March and May 2020 when compared to the same period in 2019 to meet the increasing demand.\nWhile the majority of women in Australia give birth in hospital, 0.3% of Australian babies are born at home. The majority of these homebirths are provided by privately practising midwives (PPMs). PPMs are registered as midwives with the Nursing and Midwifery Board of Australia with Endorsement for Scheduled Medicines and are all self-employed. They provide care predominantly in the home and some also have visiting rights to admit women to hospital if needed. PPMs provide primary health care much like other private providers including general practitioners (GP) outside of the hospital system. Consequently, PPMs are often not seen as a mainstream service and so are potentially missed in planning when public health emergencies like the COVID-19 pandemic occur. In a similar way, GPs have also expressed concerns about patient access to care, their personal safety and individual wellbeing.\nIt is not known how COVID-19 has impacted PPMs in Australia, a small but important group in terms of demand for services, ability to provide such services, access to personal protective equipment (PPE), training in PPE and infection control, as well as ongoing practical and psychological support from the health system. The specific changes PPMs have made to their practice in response to the pandemic are also unknown. The aim of this study was to explore the experience of PPMs in relation to the COVID-19 pandemic. The findings will provide critical insights to guide maternity service preparedness for future pandemics or emergency situations and shine a unique light on a specific cadre of maternity staff.\nMethods\nA cross-sectional national online survey was conducted in the early days of the COVID-19 response in Australia. Prior to commencement, the study was approved by the Human Research Ethics Committee of Alfred Health in Melbourne (Project 198/20).\nMidwives currently providing any type of private midwifery services for antenatal, labour and birth and/or postnatal services in Australia were eligible to participate. The number of PPMs providing services, especially during labour and birth, is largely unknown. The most recent data is from 2015, which showed that there were 241 midwives who attended homebirths as a primary midwife, a decline from 287 the year before but several of these would be midwives working in the public sector. We estimated that at least 100 PPMs would participate in the study based on interest and concerns in relation to COVID-19 expressed on social media.\nA bespoke survey was developed for this study. The questions related to preparedness to manage potential COVID-19 clients, availability of personal protection equipment (PPE) and access to information about caring for women with COVID-19. The survey asked if the PPMs received information and support and whether they had experienced increased demand for services and in what magnitude. The survey used Survey Gizmo, an online survey platform, which is password protected.\nThe study was advertised on social media (Facebook, Twitter, homebirth, midwifery sites) and through personal networks in early April 2020. One reminder post was distributed - on 19 April 2020. The advertisement provided a link to the online surveys. When the person clicked on the link they were taken to the opening page of the online survey. There were a series of questions to answer to confirm their consent before they could start the survey. The survey took 10-15 min to complete.\nQuantitative data was analysed using descriptive statistics. Content analysis was used to explore the open-ended questions and comments. All aspects of the survey were optional. Not all respondents answered every question, which means the amount of missing data varies.\nFindings\nLocation of residence, practice scope and annual caseload.\nTable 1	 	\n	n (%)	 	Australian state of practice	n = 103	 	New South Wales	23 (22%)	 	Queensland	22 (21%)	 	Victoria	9 (9%)	 	Western Australia	9 (9%)	 	Australian Capital Territory	4 (4%)	 	South Australia	4 (4%)	 	Northern Territory	-	 	Tasmania	-	 	Not reported	32 (31%)	 	Place of practice	n = 103	 	Antenatal, labour and birth and postpartum care - home only	26 (25%)	 	Antenatal, labour and birth and postpartum care - home and hospital	28 (27%)	 	Antenatal, labour and birth and postpartum care - hospital only	2 (2%)	 	Antenatal care and education only OR Postnatal care and Lactation Consultant care only	4 (4%)	 	Other	11 (10%)	 	Not reported	33 (32%)	 	Annual caseload	n = 52	 	Range	1-60	 	&lt;10	18	 	10-20	16	 	&gt;20	18	 	Median annual births per midwife	12	 	\nIn total, 103 PPMs responded to the survey, each question had between 61 and 81 responses. The location and type of practice of each of the PPMs is summarised in Table 1 . PPMs practised in New South Wales (32%), Queensland (31%), Victoria and Western Australia (13% respectively), South Australia (6%) and the Australian Capital Territory (5%). There were no respondents from the Northern Territory or Tasmania.\nAll PPMs were in private practice and practised in varying capacities across the pregnancy, labour and birth and postpartum continuum (see Table 1). The highest proportion of midwives practised the full spectrum of care including antenatal, birth and postpartum care at home and in the hospital (40%), and the lowest proportion of respondents provided antenatal and/or postnatal care (4%).\nIncreased demand from women wanting homebirth\n&quot;Fear of going to hospital due to COVID. Fear of being unsupported in hospital due to support people restrictions.&quot;\n&quot;Last week I had more enquires than I've had in about 6 months!&quot;\n&quot;I have had more requests from women who are concerned about the increasingly restrictive practices in hospitals which has made them turn to homebirth as a personally safer option.&quot;\nNinety-three percent of PPMs reported an increase in the number of enquiries relating to homebirth which ranged from 17% receiving an extra 1-4 calls to 28% receiving over 20 extra calls over the past month. The PPMS reported that women gave reasons such as concerns about the hospitals limiting support people during labour, other restrictive practices in hospitals and increased exposure to COVID-19. Many of these enquiries were made close to the women's due date even as late as 39 weeks of pregnancy. PPMs explained women's reasons with these examples: \nObtaining information on COVID-19\nPPMs were asked where they received information about COVID-19 and were provided a series of options. The most common sources of information for PPMs were state and federal health departments, professional colleges (Australian College of Midwives (ACM), Royal Australian and New Zealand College of Obstetrics and Gynaecology (RANZCOG) and the World Health Organization (WHO). PPMs also sought information from the New Zealand Department of Health and New Zealand College of Midwives, along with contacting other PPMs for information.\n&quot;Information which is more relevant to visits at home as a midwife&quot;\n&quot;Guidance from the ACM on appropriate response to COVID-19 specifically for midwives in private practice&quot;\n&quot;I heard about Telehealth Medicare changes from social media and haven't had any information from Medicare directly&quot;\nOf the 62 responses, the majority of PPMs (82%, n = 51) felt they were very well informed or well informed about the implications for practice and the care of women. However, almost half (19/44) of the comments by PPMs stated that they would feel more informed if there was information specifically tailored to the unique practise of caring for women planning a homebirth including telehealth. Responses on what would have been helpful included: \n&quot;I think ACM and RANZCOG were slow to give advice regarding pregnancy, however I know that the knowledge base has been rapidly expanding and local context is important to acknowledge&quot;\nThis information would have been welcomed from the ACM, RANZCOG and governing bodies (state and territory health departments, Medicare), whom some PPMs felt were &quot;slow&quot; to give advice relevant to their practice. \n&quot;As the situation is changing regularly it is hard to keep up with what is going on.&quot;\n&quot;Information that is not changing every day. But that's how a pandemic is I'm realising&quot;\nPPMs acknowledged that, given the rapid evolution of the situation, the information and advice changed daily making it challenging to ensure their practice was safe and up to date. \nFeeling and being prepared for COVID-19\n&quot;Have requested small supply from local hospital for new home birth bookings - denied.&quot;\n&quot;Access to gowns from local hospitals would be very helpful.&quot;\n&quot;Easier access to PPE. Assistance from local hospital had been denied.&quot;\nWhen it came to being prepared with personal protective equipment (PPE), one third of PPMs (21/61; 34%) felt they were prepared. PPMs were required to purchase PPE themselves and many reported that they were affected by the common lack of PPE including masks, gowns and gloves as well as hand sanitiser and disinfectant. Some PPMs (9/30; 30%) had a stock of PPE which they were now able to use. PPMs also commented that it would have been helpful to have had access to PPE, for example from their affiliated hospital, however this was not possible despite them making requests as explained here: \nTwo thirds of PPMs (39/61; 64%) were able to acquire some form of PPE through social media community sharing sites, online orders and Homebirth Australia which have been supplying masks. Around 65% (27/48) of PPMs reported making adaptations to PPE as part of their preparation. They reported sourcing PPE from non-hospital suppliers (hardware stores, for example) and are also wearing homemade cloth masks which can be washed between uses. Homemade hand sanitiser was also being made or sourced.\n&quot;Mainly online/phone to answer questions, history etc then in person as needed on a case by case basis... Face to face only 15-30 mins max as needed&quot;\nThe majority of PPMs (75%) felt they were well informed about breastfeeding and COVID-19, however they were concerned about in-person contact as they had limited access to PPE. One PPM wrote that she was doing: \n&quot;I'm comfortable with the guidelines that if the woman practices hand hygiene and wears a mask while feeding if she is unwell. If other guidelines are developed, I will follow them, but the information seems to be quite consistent.&quot;\nMany comments related to the importance of continuing to breastfeed and PPMs stated they were following the guidelines as they emerged: \nVery few PPMs (15%) reported being involved in simulations or drills in the event a woman in their care required admission to their local health service. There were conflicting answers regarding waterbirth with some PPMs reporting that the recommendation was not to provide waterbirth at home, while others stated they were not directed to cease practices such as waterbirth at home (86%).\nAltering practise to accommodate COVID-19 precautions\n&quot;I am limiting antenatal appointments. No face to face appointments before 24 weeks. Bookings done via video conference.&quot;\n&quot;We are now screening all women prior to appointments and then having minimal contact by phoning before the appointment.&quot;\nNinety-five percent (56/60) of PPMs reported changing the way they consulted with women including limiting consultation times to 15 min and spacing their appointments so women were not spending time in a waiting room. They are also sanitising equipment after each client and changing their clothes when they come home following a consultation or a birth. Telephone/video consultations are common and PPMs report screening women prior to attending a home visit. For example: \n&quot;...by seeing changes in hospital has made it clearer what changes we should make in community.&quot;\nFace to face birth classes had been cancelled and many PPMs had developed written information to distribute to the women and their families about minimising the risk of bringing infection into the home, social distancing and preparing for birth. Some PPMs reported that they were following the development of guidelines for in-hospital care and implementing similar precautions in the community: \n&quot;Less people present for appointments, but not limiting supports at birth.&quot;\n&quot;Other than the visits to clients I am self isolating.&quot;\nIncluded in these changes in practice, some PPMs were limiting the number of people during face-to-face consultations but not during birth, and self-isolating to minimise the risk of contracting COVID-19: \n&quot;Using more telehealth. Cancelling face to face childbirth classes. Writing a plan and making available for clients&quot;\n&quot;Informing all women that if the need for transfer arises during labour, I will not be able to come with them to the birth unit of the local hospital as I will be seen as a support person, not a health professional.&quot;\nThere were many comments relating to advising women that, should they need transfer to hospital, it is unlikely that PPM will be able to accompany them. PPMs explained that they were: \n&quot;Some telehealth where appropriate - mainly postnatal consults&quot;\nTele or video conferencing was also mentioned in regard to the provision of postnatal support for women at home. \nSupport and information from the collaborating health service\n&quot;...I have been told very clearly that if I need to transfer I am NOT allowed in the birth suite or postnatal ward.&quot;\nSixty-eight percent of PPMs who have a collaborative arrangement with local hospitals reported a lack of support from that service. They reported to have been &quot;shut out of births&quot; of women who have needed transfer from home to hospital and others have requested assistance from the local hospital and been declined. One PPM wrote: \nTwo (2%) PPMs stated that their local health service decided to exempt them from the &quot;one-person rule&quot; and allow them to stay with a woman who had transferred from home.\nDiscussion\nThe aim of this study was to explore the experience of PPMs in Australia in relation to preparing for the COVID-19 pandemic. One hundred and three PPMs from all of the States and Territories in Australia with known PPMs responded. Issues relating to clinical guidance specific to the home setting, access to PPE and infection control advice and support from health services were identified. These findings provide critical insights to guide maternity service preparedness for future pandemics or emergency situations and shine a unique light on a specific cadre of maternity staff that is often forgotten by mainstream health services.\nIn this survey, Australian PPMs reported an increase in enquiries for homebirth services in the early months of 2020 with some receiving more than 20 extra calls over the prior month. This was also reported in the media. The Australian College of Midwives has also recently surveyed women about the experience being pregnant and giving birth in the early period of the COVID-19 response in Australia and found that 26% of women reconsidered their planned place of birth. The main reasons were a fear of contracting COVID-19 in the hospital; they were told that they could not take support people to appointments, their option of homebirth in a publically-funded model was not available, they were worried their birth choices will be impacted and they were concerned about access to water immersion or Entonox for pain relief in labour. More than 2700 women responded to the online survey and 6% were either transferring or looking for a PPM to transfer care to and 3% were planning a freebirth, (that is, to give birth at home without midwifery and/or medical assistance). Planning to freebirth due to the COVID-19 restrictions is of significant concern and highlights the importance of options for women including access to PPMs.\nPrivately practising midwives need tailored, timely information to inform their care but the resources available were not specific to private practice or were confusing. Anecdotally, many midwives across Australia were finding access to tailored, non-overwhelming information a challenge. Guidance from RANZCOG was quick to be produced which respondents in this study found useful. It is important that information is developed that is more specifically tailored to meet the needs of midwives caring for women at home. This would occur if health facilities engaged pro-actively with community health workers (including PPMs) in their pandemic response planning.\nIn Australia, PPMs are mostly based in the community and attend the majority of homebirths. Some also provide care in one specified area such as antenatal and/or postnatal care, as was demonstrated in the survey. There are around 600 midwives recorded by the NMBA in 2020 as having Endorsement, which is essential before they can work as a PPM. However, it is unclear how many of these are practising privately and the anecdotal estimates are that this is less than 200. Privately practising midwives are often forgotten in maternity service plans and guidance although collaborative arrangements were meant to address this. It appears this was also the case during the current the COVID-19 pandemic with nearly half of the PPMs responding that they would feel more informed if the information was specifically tailored to the unique practice of caring for women planning a homebirth, including telehealth. Delays in the dissemination of advice was also recognized. This experience mirrors that of other primary care providers including GPs who also experienced challenges during the planning phase.\nIt is evident that PPMs who responded were resourceful and sought out information from a range of sources to inform their care. It is clear that the plethora of policies and guidelines in the early weeks of the COVID-19 response was confusing and complex to navigate. Considerations around infection control, including attendance at labour and birth, analgesia such as inhalation analgesia, mode of birth and ability to support breastfeeding, particularly for women who test positive for COVID-19, have been the subject of much debate. In particular there were conflicting answers given regarding waterbirth, with some PPMs reporting that there were recommendations that suggested not to provide waterbirth at home. The confusion over waterbirth has been reported in other countries. In the United Kingdom (UK) more and more hospitals were banning waterbirth completely for all women, leading the Royal College of Midwives to issue a Clinical Briefing on waterbirth and COVID-19. In the UK, around 26% of maternity services had stopped all waterbirths, and not just for those with suspected or proven COVID-19. The Royal College of Midwives recommended that &quot;the current evidence does not suggest that there should be a blanket cessation on the use of water in labour or waterbirth for all women&quot; although it is unclear what impact this recommendation has had in the UK. Clear, consistent evidence-based advice is clearly needed for waterbirth and other issues related to infection prevention and control. The challenges and uncertainties regarding practice changes highlight the importance of engaging primary health services, such as those PPMs provide early, and with up to date and relevant information to guide practice.\nPrivately practising midwives raised the lack of access to PPE and resources such as hand sanitizer and disinfectants. Some midwives who had clinical privileging rights with hospitals requested supplies but were denied. This led many PPMs (64%) to going online and accessing supplies through social media, online orders, hardware stores and organisations such as Homebirth Australia, who sourced supplies. Previous clients of PPMs and local community suppliers also donated, sewed cloth masks and supported some of the PPMs. Some midwives even made their own hand sanitizer. These experiences are similar to many health care providers across the world who have been calling for better access to PPE including in community-based maternity settings.\nEffective PPE must be available for midwives based in the community for antenatal appointments and for assisting births. Studies of infection control and personal protective equipment (PPE) in home healthcare have focused on hospital-in-the-home, where healthcare workers are caring for unwell people and often doing regular invasive procedures rather than in the context of pregnancy care. Maintaining infection control in the home environments can be more difficult and this is even more so during a pandemic when PPE is a heightened issue. For midwives this may be weighing scales and bags for example that will be taken from house to house.\nIt is hard to enforce social distancing in someone else's house and there may be less recommendations about how many people are allowed in someone's home when the midwife is present. However, PPMs did report limiting the number of people present during antenatal consultations and screening of clients prior to visiting to rule out potential exposure. The healthcare workers clothing may also become a source of contamination. Many health workers in maternity settings have little knowledge of decision-making in relation to the choice and use of facemasks, not to mention the impact of facemasks on development of rapport. Privately practising midwives are less likely to have to engage with the infection control practices required in the context of a pandemic response.\nUnfortunately, PPMs did not always receive adequate support from the hospital sector and this needs attention in future planning. Sixty-eight percent of PPMs who have a collaborative arrangement with a local hospital reported a lack of support from that service. In this survey very few reported being able to access simulation training run by the services and they reported being &quot;shut out of births&quot; of women who have needed transfer from home to hospital. These registered health professionals were seen as 'support people'. Others requested assistance from the local hospital and this was declined. It is concerning that these PPMs were denied support and respect and this points to ongoing issues with acceptance of midwives practising autonomously in Australia. This may be because hospitals themselves were coping with enormous change and disruption in their own services and were unable to consider community-based providers such as PPMs.\nThis study has a number of limitations. We had 103 responses to the online survey but it is difficult to know the total number of PPMs at the current time point to calculate a response rate. In 2015 (the most recent data available) there were 241 midwives who attended homebirths as a primary midwife, though this includes both PPMs and midwives employed in publicly funded homebirth programs. In the past five years, there have been considerable reductions in the number of PPMs due to challenges with insurance and meeting regulation requirements. We estimate that there are probably less than 200 PPMs in Australia and probably many less providing full spectrum of care services (antenatal, labour and birth and postnatal). Therefore, the response from more than 100 PPMs is encouraging and probably reflective of the broader experience. Additionally, not every question was answered which likely reflects the different areas of practice for the PPMs. With a longer lead in time, we may have been able to refine the survey to reduce these missing data. However, the COVID-19 response was rapid, and it was important to gather timely information in the pandemic.\nConclusions\nThis study shows that PPMs were fully aware of the need to protect themselves and their clients in the COVID-19 response and took the necessary actions in terms of information and PPE. It was challenging however and many did not receive adequate support through the public health system. This highlights that some PPMs may not be well integrated into the public health system and this means they are not acknowledged as another group of primary health providers to be supported and engaged with.\nPPMs are privately and federally funded through Australia's universal health insurance scheme (Medicare) but there are really no mechanisms in place to support them in a time of pandemic preparedness. This is unlikely to be the last pandemic and lessons need to be learned for the future, especially in terms of integration, support, education and inclusion as part of the broader health system. Midwives such as PPMs also need to develop their own preparedness plans including ways to come together to support one another, provide training and advice.\nFunding\nThere was no external funding. The study was funded internally through the .\nEthical statement\nThis study was approved by the Office of Ethics &amp; Research Governance at Alfred Health, Melbourne, Victoria Australia - Project ID number: Project 198/20.\nConflicts of interest\nThe corresponding author, Caroline Homer, is the Editor-in-Chief of Women and Birth. This paper was therefore managed completely by the Deputy Editor, Linda Sweet, to avoid any conflicts of interest. The usual processes of blind peer review were undertaken.\nOne of our co-authors, Hannah Dahlen, is a private practising midwife which may be considered as a conflict of interest.\nAuthor contributions\nCH conceived the study and wrote the first protocol. HD, MDT and VS developed the data collection tools and assisted with collecting. VS led the analysis of the data. CH wrote the initial draft of the manuscript and all authors contributed to numerous drafts. All authors approved the final version.\nReferences\nA novel coronavirus from patients with pneumonia in China, 2019\nA novel coronavirus outbreak of global health concern\nWhere do women birth during a pandemic? Changing perspectives on safe motherhood during the COVID-19 pandemic\nWinter and the key infection prevention and control practices\nInfection prevention and control in home nursing: case study of four organisations in Australia\nCreating a meaningful infection control program: one home healthcare agency's lessons\nInfection control and the home care environment\nRole of healthcare apparel and other healthcare textiles in the transmission of pathogens: a review of the literature\nClinician perceptions of respiratory infection risk; a rationale for research into mask use in routine practice\n","References depth 1":[{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"A novel coronavirus from patients with pneumonia in China, 2019","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[{"doi":"10.1016/S0140-6736(20)30183-5","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Clinical features of patients infected with 2019 novel coronavirus in Wuhan, China","abstract":"Background\nA recent cluster of pneumonia cases in Wuhan, China, was caused by a novel betacoronavirus, the 2019 novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV).\n\n We report the epidemiological, clinical, laboratory, and radiological characteristics and treatment and clinical outcomes of these patients.\n\n\nMethods\nAll patients with suspected 2019-nCoV were admitted to a designated hospital in Wuhan.\n\n We prospectively collected and analysed data on patients with laboratory-confirmed 2019-nCoV infection by real-time RT-PCR and next-generation sequencing.\n\n Data were obtained with standardised data collection forms shared by WHO and the International Severe Acute Respiratory and Emerging Infection Consortium from electronic medical records.\n\n Researchers also directly communicated with patients or their families to ascertain epidemiological and symptom data.\n\n Outcomes were also compared between patients who had been admitted to the intensive care unit (ICU) and those who had not.\n\n\nFindings\nBy Jan 2, 2020, 41 admitted hospital patients had been identified as having laboratory-confirmed 2019-nCoV infection.\n\n Most of the infected patients were men (30 [73%] of 41); less than half had underlying diseases (13 [32%]), including diabetes (eight [20%]), hypertension (six [15%]), and cardiovascular disease (six [15%]).\n\n Median age was 49·0 years (IQR 41·0–58·0).\n\n 27 (66%) of 41 patients had been exposed to Huanan seafood market.\n\n One family cluster was found.\n\n Common symptoms at onset of illness were fever (40 [98%] of 41 patients), cough (31 [76%]), and myalgia or fatigue (18 [44%]); less common symptoms were sputum production (11 [28%] of 39), headache (three [8%] of 38), haemoptysis (two [5%] of 39), and diarrhoea (one [3%] of 38).\n\n Dyspnoea developed in 22 (55%) of 40 patients (median time from illness onset to dyspnoea 8·0 days [IQR 5·0–13·0]).\n\n 26 (63%) of 41 patients had lymphopenia.\n\n All 41 patients had pneumonia with abnormal findings on chest CT.\n\n Complications included acute respiratory distress syndrome (12 [29%]), RNAaemia (six [15%]), acute cardiac injury (five [12%]) and secondary infection (four [10%]).\n\n 13 (32%) patients were admitted to an ICU and six (15%) died.\n\n Compared with non-ICU patients, ICU patients had higher plasma levels of IL2, IL7, IL10, GSCF, IP10, MCP1, MIP1A, and TNF?.\n\n\nInterpretation\nThe 2019-nCoV infection caused clusters of severe respiratory illness similar to severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus and was associated with ICU admission and high mortality.\n\n Major gaps in our knowledge of the origin, epidemiology, duration of human transmission, and clinical spectrum of disease need fulfilment by future studies.\n\n\nFunding\nMinistry of Science and Technology, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences, National Natural Science Foundation of China, and Beijing Municipal Science and Technology Commission.\n\n\n","id":"PMC7159299","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Elsevier Ltd.","authors":[{"firstname":"Chaolin","surname":"Huang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yeming","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Xingwang","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Lili","surname":"Ren","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jianping","surname":"Zhao","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Yi","surname":"Hu","email":"NULL","contributions":"3"},{"firstname":"Li","surname":"Zhang","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Guohui","surname":"Fan","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Jiuyang","surname":"Xu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xiaoying","surname":"Gu","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Zhenshun","surname":"Cheng","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ting","surname":"Yu","email":"NULL","contributions":"3"},{"firstname":"Jiaan","surname":"Xia","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Yuan","surname":"Wei","email":"NULL","contributions":"3"},{"firstname":"Wenjuan","surname":"Wu","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Xuelei","surname":"Xie","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Wen","surname":"Yin","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Hui","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"3"},{"firstname":"Min","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yan","surname":"Xiao","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Hong","surname":"Gao","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Li","surname":"Guo","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Jungang","surname":"Xie","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Guangfa","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Rongmeng","surname":"Jiang","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Zhancheng","surname":"Gao","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Qi","surname":"Jin","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Jianwei","surname":"Wang","email":"wangjw28@163.com","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Bin","surname":"Cao","email":"caobin_ben@163.com","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1016/S0140-6736(20)30154-9","date":"1970-01-01","title":"A familial cluster of pneumonia associated with the 2019 novel coronavirus indicating person-to-person transmission: a study of a family cluster","abstract":"Background\nAn ongoing outbreak of pneumonia associated with a novel coronavirus was reported in Wuhan city, Hubei province, China.\n\n Affected patients were geographically linked with a local wet market as a potential source.\n\n No data on person-to-person or nosocomial transmission have been published to date.\n\n\nMethods\nIn this study, we report the epidemiological, clinical, laboratory, radiological, and microbiological findings of five patients in a family cluster who presented with unexplained pneumonia after returning to Shenzhen, Guangdong province, China, after a visit to Wuhan, and an additional family member who did not travel to Wuhan.\n\n Phylogenetic analysis of genetic sequences from these patients were done.\n\n\nFindings\nFrom Jan 10, 2020, we enrolled a family of six patients who travelled to Wuhan from Shenzhen between Dec 29, 2019 and Jan 4, 2020. Of six family members who travelled to Wuhan, five were identified as infected with the novel coronavirus.\n\n Additionally, one family member, who did not travel to Wuhan, became infected with the virus after several days of contact with four of the family members.\n\n None of the family members had contacts with Wuhan markets or animals, although two had visited a Wuhan hospital.\n\n Five family members (aged 36–66 years) presented with fever, upper or lower respiratory tract symptoms, or diarrhoea, or a combination of these 3–6 days after exposure.\n\n They presented to our hospital (The University of Hong Kong-Shenzhen Hospital, Shenzhen) 6–10 days after symptom onset.\n\n They and one asymptomatic child (aged 10 years) had radiological ground-glass lung opacities.\n\n Older patients (aged &gt;60 years) had more systemic symptoms, extensive radiological ground-glass lung changes, lymphopenia, thrombocytopenia, and increased C-reactive protein and lactate dehydrogenase levels.\n\n The nasopharyngeal or throat swabs of these six patients were negative for known respiratory microbes by point-of-care multiplex RT-PCR, but five patients (four adults and the child) were RT-PCR positive for genes encoding the internal RNA-dependent RNA polymerase and surface Spike protein of this novel coronavirus, which were confirmed by Sanger sequencing.\n\n Phylogenetic analysis of these five patients' RT-PCR amplicons and two full genomes by next-generation sequencing showed that this is a novel coronavirus, which is closest to the bat severe acute respiatory syndrome (SARS)-related coronaviruses found in Chinese horseshoe bats.\n\n\nInterpretation\nOur findings are consistent with person-to-person transmission of this novel coronavirus in hospital and family settings, and the reports of infected travellers in other geographical regions.\n\n\nFunding\nThe Shaw Foundation Hong Kong, Michael Seak-Kan Tong, Respiratory Viral Research Foundation Limited, Hui Ming, Hui Hoy and Chow Sin Lan Charity Fund Limited, Marina Man-Wai Lee, the Hong Kong Hainan Commercial Association South China Microbiology Research Fund, Sanming Project of Medicine (Shenzhen), and High Level-Hospital Program (Guangdong Health Commission).\n\n\n","id":"PMC7159286","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Elsevier Ltd.","authors":[{"firstname":"Jasper Fuk-Woo","surname":"Chan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Shuofeng","surname":"Yuan","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Kin-Hang","surname":"Kok","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Kelvin Kai-Wang","surname":"To","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hin","surname":"Chu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jin","surname":"Yang","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Fanfan","surname":"Xing","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jieling","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Cyril Chik-Yan","surname":"Yip","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Rosana Wing-Shan","surname":"Poon","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Hoi-Wah","surname":"Tsoi","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Simon Kam-Fai","surname":"Lo","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Kwok-Hung","surname":"Chan","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Vincent Kwok-Man","surname":"Poon","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Wan-Mui","surname":"Chan","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jonathan Daniel","surname":"Ip","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jian-Piao","surname":"Cai","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Vincent Chi-Chung","surname":"Cheng","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Honglin","surname":"Chen","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Christopher Kim-Ming","surname":"Hui","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Kwok-Yung","surname":"Yuen","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.1016/S0140-6736(20)30211-7","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Epidemiological and clinical characteristics of 99 cases of 2019 novel coronavirus pneumonia in Wuhan, China: a descriptive study","abstract":"Background\nIn December, 2019, a pneumonia associated with the 2019 novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV) emerged in Wuhan, China.\n\n We aimed to further clarify the epidemiological and clinical characteristics of 2019-nCoV pneumonia.\n\n\nMethods\nIn this retrospective, single-centre study, we included all confirmed cases of 2019-nCoV in Wuhan Jinyintan Hospital from Jan 1 to Jan 20, 2020. Cases were confirmed by real-time RT-PCR and were analysed for epidemiological, demographic, clinical, and radiological features and laboratory data.\n\n Outcomes were followed up until Jan 25, 2020.\nFindings\nOf the 99 patients with 2019-nCoV pneumonia, 49 (49%) had a history of exposure to the Huanan seafood market.\n\n The average age of the patients was 55·5 years (SD 13·1), including 67 men and 32 women.\n\n 2019-nCoV was detected in all patients by real-time RT-PCR.\n\n 50 (51%) patients had chronic diseases.\n\n Patients had clinical manifestations of fever (82 [83%] patients), cough (81 [82%] patients), shortness of breath (31 [31%] patients), muscle ache (11 [11%] patients), confusion (nine [9%] patients), headache (eight [8%] patients), sore throat (five [5%] patients), rhinorrhoea (four [4%] patients), chest pain (two [2%] patients), diarrhoea (two [2%] patients), and nausea and vomiting (one [1%] patient).\n\n According to imaging examination, 74 (75%) patients showed bilateral pneumonia, 14 (14%) patients showed multiple mottling and ground-glass opacity, and one (1%) patient had pneumothorax.\n\n 17 (17%) patients developed acute respiratory distress syndrome and, among them, 11 (11%) patients worsened in a short period of time and died of multiple organ failure.\n\n\nInterpretation\nThe 2019-nCoV infection was of clustering onset, is more likely to affect older males with comorbidities, and can result in severe and even fatal respiratory diseases such as acute respiratory distress syndrome.\n\n In general, characteristics of patients who died were in line with the MuLBSTA score, an early warning model for predicting mortality in viral pneumonia.\n\n Further investigation is needed to explore the applicability of the MuLBSTA score in predicting the risk of mortality in 2019-nCoV infection.\n\n\nFunding\nNational Key R&amp;D Program of China.\n\n\n","id":"PMC7135076","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Elsevier Ltd.","authors":[{"firstname":"Nanshan","surname":"Chen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Min","surname":"Zhou","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Xuan","surname":"Dong","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jieming","surname":"Qu","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Fengyun","surname":"Gong","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Yang","surname":"Han","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Yang","surname":"Qiu","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jingli","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ying","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Yuan","surname":"Wei","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jia'an","surname":"Xia","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ting","surname":"Yu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xinxin","surname":"Zhang","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Li","surname":"Zhang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1056/NEJMoa2001017","date":"1970-01-01","title":"A Novel Coronavirus from Patients with Pneumonia in China, 2019","abstract":"In December 2019, a cluster of patients with pneumonia of unknown cause was linked to a seafood wholesale market in Wuhan, China.\n A previously unknown betacoronavirus was discovered through the use of unbiased sequencing in samples from patients with pneumonia.\n Human airway epithelial cells were used to isolate a novel coronavirus, named 2019-nCoV, which formed a clade within the subgenus sarbecovirus, Orthocoronavirinae subfamily.\n Different from both MERS-CoV and SARS-CoV, 2019-nCoV is the seventh member of the family of coronaviruses that infect humans.\n Enhanced surveillance and further investigation are ongoing.\n (Funded by the National Key Research and Development Program of China and the National Major Project for Control and Prevention of Infectious Disease in China.\n)","id":"PMC7092803","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Massachusetts Medical Society","authors":[{"firstname":"Na","surname":"Zhu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Dingyu","surname":"Zhang","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Wenling","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Xingwang","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Bo","surname":"Yang","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jingdong","surname":"Song","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Xiang","surname":"Zhao","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Baoying","surname":"Huang","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Weifeng","surname":"Shi","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Roujian","surname":"Lu","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Peihua","surname":"Niu","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Faxian","surname":"Zhan","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Xuejun","surname":"Ma","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Dayan","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Wenbo","surname":"Xu","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Guizhen","surname":"Wu","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"George F.","surname":"Gao","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Wenjie","surname":"Tan","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.1038/srep17155","date":"2015-10-26","title":"Inferring the hosts of coronavirus using dual statistical models based on nucleotide\ncomposition","abstract":"Many coronaviruses are capable of interspecies transmission.\n Some of them have caused\nworldwide panic as emerging human pathogens in recent years, e.\ng.\n, severe acute\nrespiratory syndrome coronavirus (SARS-CoV) and Middle East respiratory syndrome\ncoronavirus (MERS-CoV).\n In order to assess their threat to humans, we explored to\ninfer the potential hosts of coronaviruses using a dual-model approach based on\nnineteen parameters computed from spike genes of coronaviruses.\n Both the support\nvector machine (SVM) model and the Mahalanobis distance (MD) discriminant model\nachieved high accuracies in leave-one-out cross-validation of training data\nconsisting of 730 representative coronaviruses (99.86% and 98.08% respectively).\n\nPredictions on 47 additional coronaviruses precisely conformed to conclusions or\nspeculations by other researchers.\n Our approach is implemented as a web server that\ncan be accessed at http://bioinfo.\nihb.\nac.\ncn/seq2hosts.\n","id":"PMC4660426","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Nature Publishing Group","authors":[{"firstname":"Qin","surname":"Tang","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Yulong","surname":"Song","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Mijuan","surname":"Shi","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Yingyin","surname":"Cheng","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Wanting","surname":"Zhang","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Xiao-Qin","surname":"Xia","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.1056/NEJMc2001272","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Importation and Human-to-Human Transmission of a Novel Coronavirus in Vietnam","abstract":"","id":"PMC7121428","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Massachusetts Medical Society","authors":[{"firstname":"Lan T.","surname":"Phan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Thuong V.","surname":"Nguyen","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Quang C.","surname":"Luong","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Thinh V.","surname":"Nguyen","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Hieu T.","surname":"Nguyen","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Hung Q.","surname":"Le","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Hung Q.","surname":"Le","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Thuc T.","surname":"Nguyen","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Thang M.","surname":"Cao","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Thang M.","surname":"Cao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Quang D.","surname":"Pham","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.1016/j.jgar.2020.02.021","date":"2020-02-21","title":"2019 novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV) outbreak: A new challenge","abstract":"\n\n\n•\nIn December 2019, a novel Betacoronavirus (2019-nCoV; SARS-CoV-2) was recognised and has rapidly spread across continents.\n","id":"PMC7102618","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Published by Elsevier Ltd on behalf of International Society for Antimicrobial Chemotherapy.","authors":[{"firstname":"Tommaso","surname":"Lupia","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Silvia","surname":"Scabini","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Simone","surname":"Mornese Pinna","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Giovanni","surname":"Di Perri","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Francesco Giuseppe","surname":"De Rosa","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Silvia","surname":"Corcione","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.1001/jama.2020.1585","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Clinical Characteristics of 138 Hospitalized Patients With 2019 Novel Coronavirus-Infected Pneumonia in Wuhan","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1097/CM9.0000000000000722","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Identification of a novel coronavirus causing severe pneumonia in human: a descriptive study","abstract":"Background\nHuman infections with zoonotic coronaviruses (CoVs), including severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS)-CoV and Middle East respiratory syndrome (MERS)-CoV, have raised great public health concern globally.\n\n Here, we report a novel bat-origin CoV causing severe and fatal pneumonia in humans.\n\n\nMethods\nWe collected clinical data and bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) specimens from five patients with severe pneumonia from Wuhan Jinyintan Hospital, Hubei province, China.\n\n Nucleic acids of the BAL were extracted and subjected to next-generation sequencing.\n\n Virus isolation was carried out, and maximum-likelihood phylogenetic trees were constructed.\n\n\nResults\nFive patients hospitalized from December 18 to December 29, 2019 presented with fever, cough, and dyspnea accompanied by complications of acute respiratory distress syndrome.\n\n Chest radiography revealed diffuse opacities and consolidation.\n\n One of these patients died.\n\n Sequence results revealed the presence of a previously unknown ?-CoV strain in all five patients, with 99.8% to 99.9% nucleotide identities among the isolates.\n\n These isolates showed 79.0% nucleotide identity with the sequence of SARS-CoV (GenBank NC_004718) and 51.8% identity with the sequence of MERS-CoV (GenBank NC_019843).\n\n The virus is phylogenetically closest to a bat SARS-like CoV (SL-ZC45, GenBank MG772933) with 87.6% to 87.7% nucleotide identity, but is in a separate clade.\n\n Moreover, these viruses have a single intact open reading frame gene 8, as a further indicator of bat-origin CoVs.\n\n However, the amino acid sequence of the tentative receptor-binding domain resembles that of SARS-CoV, indicating that these viruses might use the same receptor.\n\n\nConclusion\nA novel bat-borne CoV was identified that is associated with severe and fatal respiratory disease in humans.\n\n\n","id":"PMC7147275","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Wolters Kluwer Health","authors":[{"firstname":"Li-Li","surname":"Ren","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ye-Ming","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Zhi-Qiang","surname":"Wu","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Zi-Chun","surname":"Xiang","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Li","surname":"Guo","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Teng","surname":"Xu","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Yong-Zhong","surname":"Jiang","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Yan","surname":"Xiong","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Yong-Jun","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Xing-Wang","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Hui","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Guo-Hui","surname":"Fan","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Xiao-Ying","surname":"Gu","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Yan","surname":"Xiao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hong","surname":"Gao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jiu-Yang","surname":"Xu","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Fan","surname":"Yang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xin-Ming","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Chao","surname":"Wu","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Lan","surname":"Chen","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Yi-Wei","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Bo","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jian","surname":"Yang","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Xiao-Rui","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jie","surname":"Dong","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Li","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Chao-Lin","surname":"Huang","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jian-Ping","surname":"Zhao","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Yi","surname":"Hu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zhen-Shun","surname":"Cheng","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Lin-Lin","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Zhao-Hui","surname":"Qian","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Chuan","surname":"Qin","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Qi","surname":"Jin","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Bin","surname":"Cao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jian-Wei","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Xiu-Yuan","surname":"Hao","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Xiu-Yuan","surname":"Hao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Pei-Fang","surname":"Wei","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.1038/s41586-020-2008-3","date":"2020-01-28","title":"A new coronavirus associated with human respiratory disease in China","abstract":"id='Par1'>Emerging infectious diseases, such as severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) and Zika virus disease, present a major threat to public health1–3.\n Despite intense research efforts, how, when and where new diseases appear are still a source of considerable uncertainty.\n A severe respiratory disease was recently reported in Wuhan, Hubei province, China.\n As of 25 January 2020, at least 1,975 cases had been reported since the first patient was hospitalized on 12 December 2019. Epidemiological investigations have suggested that the outbreak was associated with a seafood market in Wuhan.\n Here we study a single patient who was a worker at the market and who was admitted to the Central Hospital of Wuhan on 26 December 2019 while experiencing a severe respiratory syndrome that included fever, dizziness and a cough.\n Metagenomic RNA sequencing4 of a sample of bronchoalveolar lavage fluid from the patient identified a new RNA virus strain from the family Coronaviridae, which is designated here ‘WH-Human 1’ coronavirus (and has also been referred to as ‘2019-nCoV’).\n Phylogenetic analysis of the complete viral genome (29,903 nucleotides) revealed that the virus was most closely related (89.1% nucleotide similarity) to a group of SARS-like coronaviruses (genus Betacoronavirus, subgenus Sarbecovirus) that had previously been found in bats in China5.\n This outbreak highlights the ongoing ability of viral spill-over from animals to cause severe disease in humans.\n","id":"PMC7094943","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Nature Publishing Group UK","authors":[{"firstname":"Fan","surname":"Wu","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Su","surname":"Zhao","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Bin","surname":"Yu","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Yan-Mei","surname":"Chen","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Wen","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Zhi-Gang","surname":"Song","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Yi","surname":"Hu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zhao-Wu","surname":"Tao","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Zhao-Wu","surname":"Tao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jun-Hua","surname":"Tian","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Yuan-Yuan","surname":"Pei","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ming-Li","surname":"Yuan","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Yu-Ling","surname":"Zhang","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Fa-Hui","surname":"Dai","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Yi","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Qi-Min","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jiao-Jiao","surname":"Zheng","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Lin","surname":"Xu","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Edward C.","surname":"Holmes","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Yong-Zhen","surname":"Zhang","email":"zhangyongzhen@shphc.org.cn","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Yong-Zhen","surname":"Zhang","email":"zhangyongzhen@shphc.org.cn","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1016/j.micinf.2020.01.003","date":"2020-01-24","title":"Measures for diagnosing and treating infections by a novel coronavirus responsible for a pneumonia outbreak originating in Wuhan, China","abstract":"On 10 January 2020, a new coronavirus causing a pneumonia outbreak in Wuhan City in central China was denoted as 2019-nCoV by the World Health Organization (WHO).\n As of 24 January 2020, there were 887 confirmed cases of 2019-nCoV infection, including 26 deaths, reported in China and other countries.\n Therefore, combating this new virus and stopping the epidemic is a matter of urgency.\n Here, we focus on advances in research and development of fast diagnosis methods, as well as potential prophylactics and therapeutics to prevent or treat 2019-nCoV infection.\n","id":"PMC7102556","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Institut Pasteur. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.","authors":[{"firstname":"Fei","surname":"Yu","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Lanying","surname":"Du","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"David M.","surname":"Ojcius","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Chungen","surname":"Pan","email":"chungenp@163.com","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Shibo","surname":"Jiang","email":"shibojiang@fudan.edu.cn","contributions":"2"}]},{"doi":"10.1164/rccm.2014P7","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Novel Wuhan (2019-nCoV) coronavirus","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1128/JVI.78.15.7863-7866.2004","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus phylogeny: toward consensus","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Diagnosis and treatment of new coronavirus pneumonia (trial version 7) [J / OL]. Tianjin J Tradit Chin Med. 2020;1-5. http://kns.cnki.net/kcms/detail/12.1349.R.20200304.1638.006.html. Accessed 3 June 2020.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.21037/apm-20-1272","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Clinical outcome of standardized oxygen therapy nursing strategy in COVID-19","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/S1473-3099(20)30086-4","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Radiological findings from 81 patients with COVID-19 pneumonia in Wuhan, China: a descriptive study","abstract":"Background\nA cluster of patients with coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pneumonia caused by infection with severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) were successively reported in Wuhan, China.\n\n We aimed to describe the CT findings across different timepoints throughout the disease course.\n\n\nMethods\nPatients with COVID-19 pneumonia (confirmed by next-generation sequencing or RT-PCR) who were admitted to one of two hospitals in Wuhan and who underwent serial chest CT scans were retrospectively enrolled.\n\n Patients were grouped on the basis of the interval between symptom onset and the first CT scan: group 1 (subclinical patients; scans done before symptom onset), group 2 (scans done ?1 week after symptom onset), group 3 (&gt;1 week to 2 weeks), and group 4 (&gt;2 weeks to 3 weeks).\n\n Imaging features and their distribution were analysed and compared across the four groups.\n\n\nFindings\n81 patients admitted to hospital between Dec 20, 2019, and Jan 23, 2020, were retrospectively enrolled.\n\n The cohort included 42 (52%) men and 39 (48%) women, and the mean age was 49·5 years (SD 11·0).\n\n The mean number of involved lung segments was 10·5 (SD 6·4) overall, 2·8 (3·3) in group 1, 11·1 (5·4) in group 2, 13·0 (5·7) in group 3, and 12·1 (5·9) in group 4. The predominant pattern of abnormality observed was bilateral (64 [79%] patients), peripheral (44 [54%]), ill-defined (66 [81%]), and ground-glass opacification (53 [65%]), mainly involving the right lower lobes (225 [27%] of 849 affected segments).\n\n In group 1 (n=15), the predominant pattern was unilateral (nine [60%]) and multifocal (eight [53%]) ground-glass opacities (14 [93%]).\n\n Lesions quickly evolved to bilateral (19 [90%]), diffuse (11 [52%]) ground-glass opacity predominance (17 [81%]) in group 2 (n=21).\n\n Thereafter, the prevalence of ground-glass opacities continued to decrease (17 [57%] of 30 patients in group 3, and five [33%] of 15 in group 4), and consolidation and mixed patterns became more frequent (12 [40%] in group 3, eight [53%] in group 4).\n\n\nInterpretation\nCOVID-19 pneumonia manifests with chest CT imaging abnormalities, even in asymptomatic patients, with rapid evolution from focal unilateral to diffuse bilateral ground-glass opacities that progressed to or co-existed with consolidations within 1–3 weeks.\n\n Combining assessment of imaging features with clinical and laboratory findings could facilitate early diagnosis of COVID-19 pneumonia.\n\n\nFunding\nNone.\n\n\n","id":"PMC7159053","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Elsevier Ltd.","authors":[{"firstname":"Heshui","surname":"Shi","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xiaoyu","surname":"Han","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Nanchuan","surname":"Jiang","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Yukun","surname":"Cao","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Osamah","surname":"Alwalid","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jin","surname":"Gu","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Yanqing","surname":"Fan","email":"1024932023@qq.com","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Chuansheng","surname":"Zheng","email":"hqzcsxh@sina.com","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.1007/s11427-020-1637-5","date":"2020-01-20","title":"Evolution of the novel coronavirus from the ongoing Wuhan outbreak and modeling of its spike protein for risk of human transmission","abstract":"","id":"PMC7089049","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Science China Press","authors":[{"firstname":"Xintian","surname":"Xu","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ping","surname":"Chen","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jingfang","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jiannan","surname":"Feng","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Hui","surname":"Zhou","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Xuan","surname":"Li","email":"lixuan@sippe.ac.cn","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Wu","surname":"Zhong","email":"zhongwu@bmi.ac.cn","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Pei","surname":"Hao","email":"phao@ips.ac.cn","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.1007/s00018-004-4242-5","date":"1970-01-01","title":"What’s new in the renin-angiotensin system?","abstract":"Cellular entry of enveloped viruses is often dependent on attachment proteins expressed on the host cell surface.\n Viral envelope proteins bind these receptors, and, in an incompletely understood process, facilitate fusion of the cellular and viral membranes so as to introduce the viral core into the cytoplasm.\n Only a small fraction of viral receptors have been identified so far.\n Recently, a novel coronavirus was identified as the etiological agent of severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS).\n The fusion protein gene of SARS coronavirus (SARS-CoV) was cloned and characterized, and shortly thereafter, angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2) was shown to be its functional receptor.\n Identification of ACE2 as a receptor for SARS-CoV will likely contribute to the development of antivirals and vaccines.\n It may also contribute to the development of additional animal models for studying SARS pathogenesis, and could help identify the animal reservoir of SARS-CoV.\n","id":"PMC7079798","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Birkhäuser-Verlag","authors":[{"firstname":"J. H.","surname":"Kuhn","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"W.","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"H.","surname":"Choe","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"M.","surname":"Farzan","email":"farzan@mbcrr.harvard.edu","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.1007/s11684-020-0754-0","date":"2020-02-08","title":"Single-cell RNA-seq data analysis on the receptor ACE2 expression reveals the potential risk of different human organs vulnerable to 2019-nCoV infection","abstract":"Electronic Supplementary Material\nSupplementary material is available for this article at 10.1007/s11684-020-0754-0 and is accessible for authorized users.\n\n\n","id":"PMC7088738","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Higher Education Press","authors":[{"firstname":"Xin","surname":"Zou","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ke","surname":"Chen","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jiawei","surname":"Zou","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Peiyi","surname":"Han","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jie","surname":"Hao","email":"j.hao@sjtu.edu.cn","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Zeguang","surname":"Han","email":"hanzg@sjtu.edu.cn","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.1038/s41368-020-0074-x","date":"2020-02-15","title":"High expression of ACE2 receptor of 2019-nCoV on the epithelial cells of oral mucosa","abstract":"id='Par1'>It has been reported that ACE2 is the main host cell receptor of 2019-nCoV and plays a crucial role in the entry of virus into the cell to cause the final infection.\n To investigate the potential route of 2019-nCov infection on the mucosa of oral cavity, bulk RNA-seq profiles from two public databases including The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) and Functional Annotation of The Mammalian Genome Cap Analysis of Gene Expression (FANTOM5 CAGE) dataset were collected.\n RNA-seq profiling data of 13 organ types with para-carcinoma normal tissues from TCGA and 14 organ types with normal tissues from FANTOM5 CAGE were analyzed in order to explore and validate the expression of ACE2 on the mucosa of oral cavity.\n Further, single-cell transcriptomes from an independent data generated in-house were used to identify and confirm the ACE2-expressing cell composition and proportion in oral cavity.\n The results demonstrated that the ACE2 expressed on the mucosa of oral cavity.\n Interestingly, this receptor was highly enriched in epithelial cells of tongue.\n Preliminarily, those findings have explained the basic mechanism that the oral cavity is a potentially high risk for 2019-nCoV infectious susceptibility and provided a piece of evidence for the future prevention strategy in dental clinical practice as well as daily life.\n","id":"PMC7039956","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Nature Publishing Group UK","authors":[{"firstname":"Hao","surname":"Xu","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Liang","surname":"Zhong","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jiaxin","surname":"Deng","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jiakuan","surname":"Peng","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Hongxia","surname":"Dan","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Xin","surname":"Zeng","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Taiwen","surname":"Li","email":"litaiwen@scu.edu.cn","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Qianming","surname":"Chen","email":"qmchen@scu.edu.cn","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.1002/path.1570","date":"2004-03-15","title":"Tissue distribution of ACE2 protein, the functional receptor for SARS coronavirus. A first step in understanding SARS pathogenesis","abstract":"Severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) is an acute infectious disease that spreads mainly via the respiratory route.\n A distinct coronavirus (SARS?CoV) has been identified as the aetiological agent of SARS.\n Recently, a metallopeptidase named angiotensin?converting enzyme 2 (ACE2) has been identified as the functional receptor for SARS?CoV.\n Although ACE2 mRNA is known to be present in virtually all organs, its protein expression is largely unknown.\n Since identifying the possible route of infection has major implications for understanding the pathogenesis and future treatment strategies for SARS, the present study investigated the localization of ACE2 protein in various human organs (oral and nasal mucosa, nasopharynx, lung, stomach, small intestine, colon, skin, lymph nodes, thymus, bone marrow, spleen, liver, kidney, and brain).\n The most remarkable finding was the surface expression of ACE2 protein on lung alveolar epithelial cells and enterocytes of the small intestine.\n Furthermore, ACE2 was present in arterial and venous endothelial cells and arterial smooth muscle cells in all organs studied.\n In conclusion, ACE2 is abundantly present in humans in the epithelia of the lung and small intestine, which might provide possible routes of entry for the SARS?CoV.\n This epithelial expression, together with the presence of ACE2 in vascular endothelium, also provides a first step in understanding the pathogenesis of the main SARS disease manifestations.\n Copyright © 2004 Pathological Society of Great Britain and Ireland.\n Published by John Wiley &amp; Sons, Ltd.\n","id":"PMC7167720","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"John Wiley &amp; Sons, Ltd.","authors":[{"firstname":"I","surname":"Hamming","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"W","surname":"Timens","email":"w.timens@path.azg.nl","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"MLC","surname":"Bulthuis","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"AT","surname":"Lely","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"GJ","surname":"Navis","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"H","surname":"van Goor","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.1126/science.abb2507","date":"2020-02-17","title":"Cryo-EM structure of the 2019-nCoV spike in the prefusion conformation","abstract":"The World Health Organization has declared the outbreak of a novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV) to be a public health emergency of international concern.\n The virus binds to host cells through its trimeric spike glycoprotein, making this protein a key target for potential therapies and diagnostics.\n Wrapp et al.\n determined a 3.5-angstrom-resolution structure of the 2019-nCoV trimeric spike protein by cryo–electron microscopy.\n Using biophysical assays, the authors show that this protein binds at least 10 times more tightly than the corresponding spike protein of severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS)–CoV to their common host cell receptor.\n They also tested three antibodies known to bind to the SARS-CoV spike protein but did not detect binding to the 2019-nCoV spike protein.\n These studies provide valuable information to guide the development of medical counter-measures for 2019-nCoV.\n","id":"PMC7164637","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"American Association for the Advancement of Science","authors":[{"firstname":"Daniel","surname":"Wrapp","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Nianshuang","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Nianshuang","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Kizzmekia S.","surname":"Corbett","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Kizzmekia S.","surname":"Corbett","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jory A.","surname":"Goldsmith","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Jory A.","surname":"Goldsmith","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ching-Lin","surname":"Hsieh","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Olubukola","surname":"Abiona","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Barney S.","surname":"Graham","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Barney S.","surname":"Graham","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jason S.","surname":"McLellan","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Jason S.","surname":"McLellan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1002/path.1560","date":"2004-02-12","title":"Organ distribution of severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) associated coronavirus (SARS?CoV) in SARS patients: implications for pathogenesis and virus transmission pathways","abstract":"We previously identified the major pathological changes in the respiratory and immune systems of patients who died of severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) but gained little information on the organ distribution of SARS?associated coronavirus (SARS?CoV).\n In the present study, we used a murine monoclonal antibody specific for SARS?CoV nucleoprotein, and probes specific for a SARS?CoV RNA polymerase gene fragment, for immunohistochemistry and in situ hybridization, respectively, to detect SARS?CoV systematically in tissues from patients who died of SARS.\n SARS?CoV was found in lung, trachea/bronchus, stomach, small intestine, distal convoluted renal tubule, sweat gland, parathyroid, pituitary, pancreas, adrenal gland, liver and cerebrum, but was not detected in oesophagus, spleen, lymph node, bone marrow, heart, aorta, cerebellum, thyroid, testis, ovary, uterus or muscle.\n These results suggest that, in addition to the respiratory system, the gastrointestinal tract and other organs with detectable SARS?CoV may also be targets of SARS?CoV infection.\n The pathological changes in these organs may be caused directly by the cytopathic effect mediated by local replication of the SARS?CoV; or indirectly as a result of systemic responses to respiratory failure or the harmful immune response induced by viral infection.\n In addition to viral spread through a respiratory route, SARS?CoV in the intestinal tract, kidney and sweat glands may be excreted via faeces, urine and sweat, thereby leading to virus transmission.\n This study provides important information for understanding the pathogenesis of SARS?CoV infection and sheds light on possible virus transmission pathways.\n This data will be useful for designing new strategies for prevention and treatment of SARS.\n Copyright © 2004 Pathological Society of Great Britain and Ireland.\n Published by John Wiley &amp; Sons, Ltd.\n","id":"PMC7167761","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"John Wiley &amp; Sons, Ltd.","authors":[{"firstname":"Yanqing","surname":"Ding","email":"dyq@fimmu.com","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Li","surname":"He","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Qingling","surname":"Zhang","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Zhongxi","surname":"Huang","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Xiaoyan","surname":"Che","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jinlin","surname":"Hou","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Huijun","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Hong","surname":"Shen","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Liwen","surname":"Qiu","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Zhuguo","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jian","surname":"Geng","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Junjie","surname":"Cai","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Huixia","surname":"Han","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Xin","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Wei","surname":"Kang","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Desheng","surname":"Weng","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ping","surname":"Liang","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Shibo","surname":"Jiang","email":"sjiang@nybloodcenter.org","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1086/381535","date":"2003-08-21","title":"Significant Changes of Peripheral T Lymphocyte Subsets in Patients with Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome","abstract":"This report demonstrates that a rapid decrease of peripheral T cell subsets is a unique characteristic in patients with SARS during acute infection, although total white blood cell counts, red blood cell counts, and platelet counts remain relatively normal.\n In recovering patients, a rapid and dramatic restoration of peripheral T cell subsets was seen in the periphery.\n Although the underlying mechanism of the acute decrease of peripheral T cell subsets observed in patients with SARS during the acute stage remains unknown, this clinical characteristic can facilitate an earlier and more accurate diagnosis of SARS.\n","id":"PMC7109946","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"The University of Chicago Press","authors":[{"firstname":"Taisheng","surname":"Li","email":"tli@21cn.com","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Zhifeng","surname":"Qiu","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Linqi","surname":"Zhang","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Yang","surname":"Han","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Wei","surname":"He","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Zhengyin","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Xiaojun","surname":"Ma","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hongwei","surname":"Fan","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Wei","surname":"Lu","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jing","surname":"Xie","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Huanling","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Guohua","surname":"Deng","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Aixia","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.1002/jmv.25709","date":"2020-02-13","title":"Overlapping and discrete aspects of the pathology and pathogenesis of the emerging human pathogenic coronaviruses SARS?CoV, MERS?CoV, and 2019?nCoV","abstract":"First reported from Wuhan, The People's Republic of China, on 31 December 2019, the ongoing outbreak of a novel coronavirus (2019?nCoV) causes great global concerns.\n Based on the advice of the International Health Regulations Emergency Committee and the fact that to date 24 other countries also reported cases, the WHO Director?General declared that the outbreak of 2019?nCoV constitutes a Public Health Emergency of International Concern on 30 January 2020. Together with the other two highly pathogenic coronaviruses, the severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus (SARS?CoV) and Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus (MERS?CoV), 2019?nCov and other yet to be identified coronaviruses pose a global threat to public health.\n In this mini?review, we provide a brief introduction to the pathology and pathogenesis of SARS?CoV and MERS?CoV and extrapolate this knowledge to the newly identified 2019?nCoV.\n","id":"PMC7166760","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"John Wiley and Sons Inc.","authors":[{"firstname":"Jia","surname":"Liu","email":"jialiu77@hust.edu.cn","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Xin","surname":"Zheng","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Xin","surname":"Zheng","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Qiaoxia","surname":"Tong","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Wei","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Baoju","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Kathrin","surname":"Sutter","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Mirko","surname":"Trilling","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Mengji","surname":"Lu","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ulf","surname":"Dittmer","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Dongliang","surname":"Yang","email":"dlyang@hust.edu.cn","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.1016/j.cca.2020.06.012","date":"2020-06-03","title":"Lactate dehydrogenase and C-reactive protein as predictors of respiratory failure in CoVID-19 patients","abstract":"\n\n\n•\nCOVID19 patients can develop severe acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS).\n","id":"PMC7282743","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Elsevier B.V.","authors":[{"firstname":"Erika","surname":"Poggiali","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Domenica","surname":"Zaino","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Paolo","surname":"Immovilli","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Luca","surname":"Rovero","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Giulia","surname":"Losi","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Alessandro","surname":"Dacrema","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Marzia","surname":"Nuccetelli","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Giovanni Battista","surname":"Vadacca","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Donata","surname":"Guidetti","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Andrea","surname":"Vercelli","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Andrea","surname":"Magnacavallo","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Sergio","surname":"Bernardini","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Chiara","surname":"Terracciano","email":"c.terracciano@ausl.pc.it","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.18632/aging.103372","date":"2020-05-22","title":"Lactate dehydrogenase, an independent risk factor of severe COVID-19 patients: a retrospective and observational study","abstract":"Background: The World Health Organization has declared coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) a public health emergency of global concern.\n Updated analysis of cases might help identify the risk factors of illness severity.\n","id":"PMC7343511","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Impact Journals","authors":[{"firstname":"Yi","surname":"Han","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Haidong","surname":"Zhang","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Sucheng","surname":"Mu","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Wei","surname":"Wei","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Chaoyuan","surname":"Jin","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Chaoyang","surname":"Tong","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Zhenju","surname":"Song","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Yunfei","surname":"Zha","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Yuan","surname":"Xue","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Guorong","surname":"Gu","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.1002/jmv.25871","date":"2020-04-09","title":"C?reactive protein correlates with computed tomographic findings and predicts severe COVID?19 early","abstract":"COVID?19 has developed into a worldwide pandemic; early identification of severe illness is critical for controlling it and improving the prognosis of patients with limited medical resources.\n The present study aimed to analyze the characteristics of severe COVID?19 and identify biomarkers for differential diagnosis and prognosis prediction.\n In total, 27 consecutive patients with COVID?19 and 75 patients with flu were retrospectively enrolled.\n Clinical parameters were collected from electronic medical records.\n The disease course was divided into four stages: initial, progression, peak, and recovery stages, according to computed tomography (CT) progress.\n to mild COVID?19, the lymphocytes in the severe COVID?19 progressively decreased at the progression and the peak stages, but rebound in the recovery stage.\n The levels of C?reactive protein (CRP) in the severe group at the initial and progression stages were higher than those in the mild group.\n Correlation analysis showed that CRP (R?=?.\n62; P?&lt;?.\n01), erythrocyte sedimentation rate (R?=?.\n55; P?&lt;?.\n01) and granulocyte/lymphocyte ratio (R?=?.\n49; P?&lt;?.\n01) were positively associated with the CT severity scores.\n In contrast, the number of lymphocytes (R?=??.\n37; P?&lt;?.\n01) was negatively correlated with the CT severity scores.\n The receiver?operating characteristic analysis demonstrated that area under the curve of CRP on the first visit for predicting severe COVID?19 was 0.87 (95% CI 0.10–1.00) at 20.42 mg/L cut?off, with sensitivity and specificity 83% and 91%, respectively.\n CRP in severe COVID?19 patients increased significantly at the initial stage, before CT findings.\n Importantly, CRP, which was associated with disease development, predicted early severe COVID?19.","id":"PMC7262341","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"John Wiley and Sons Inc.","authors":[{"firstname":"Chaochao","surname":"Tan","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ying","surname":"Huang","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Ying","surname":"Huang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Fengxia","surname":"Shi","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Kui","surname":"Tan","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Qionghui","surname":"Ma","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Yong","surname":"Chen","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Xixin","surname":"Jiang","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Xiaosong","surname":"Li","email":"lxsong0308@163.com","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.1016/j.eclinm.2020.100375","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Eosinopenia and elevated C-reactive protein facilitate triage of COVID-19 patients in fever clinic: A retrospective case-control study","abstract":"Background\nCoronavirus disease (COVID-19) caused by severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) is currently a pandemic affecting over 200 countries.\n\n Many cities have established designated fever clinics to triage suspected COVID-19 patients from other patients with similar symptoms.\n\n However, given the limited availability of the nucleic acid test as well as long waiting time for both the test and radiographic examination, the quarantine or therapeutic decisions for a large number of mixed patients were often not made in time.\n\n We aimed to identify simple and quickly available laboratory biomarkers to facilitate effective triage at the fever clinics for sorting suspected COVID-19 patients from those with COVID-19-like symptoms.\n\n\nMethods\nWe collected clinical, etiological, and laboratory data of 989 patients who visited the Fever Clinic at Wuhan Union Hospital, Wuhan, China, from Jan 31 to Feb 21. Based on polymerase chain reaction (PCR) nucleic acid testing for SARS-CoV-2 infection, they were divided into two groups: SARS-CoV-2-positive patients as cases and SARS-CoV-2-negative patients as controls.\n\n We compared the clinical features and laboratory findings of the two groups, and analyzed the diagnostic performance of several laboratory parameters in predicting SARS-CoV-2 infection and made relevant comparisons to the China diagnosis guideline of having a normal or decreased number of leukocytes (?9·5 109/L) or lymphopenia (&lt;1·1 109/L).\n\n\nFindings\nNormal or decreased number of leukocytes (?9·5 109/L), lymphopenia (&lt;1·1 109/L), eosinopenia (&lt;0·02 109/L), and elevated hs-CRP (?4 mg/L) were presented in 95·0%, 52·2%, 74·7% and 86·7% of COVID-19 patients, much higher than 87·2%, 28·8%, 31·3% and 45·2% of the controls, respectively.\n\n The eosinopenia produced a sensitivity of 74·7% and specificity of 68·7% for separating the two groups with the area under the curve (AUC) of 0·717. The combination of eosinopenia and elevated hs-CRP yielded a sensitivity of 67·9% and specificity of 78·2% (AUC=0·730).\n\n The addition of eosinopenia alone or the combination of eosinopenia and elevated hs-CRP into the guideline-recommended diagnostic parameters for COVID-19 improved the predictive capacity with higher than zero of both net reclassification improvement (NRI) and integrated discrimination improvement (IDI).\n\n\nInterpretation\nThe combination of eosinopenia and elevated hs-CRP can effectively triage suspected COVID-19 patients from other patients attending the fever clinic with COVID-19-like initial symptoms.\n\n This finding would be particularly useful for designing triage strategies in an epidemic region having a large number of patients with COVID-19 and other respiratory diseases while limited medical resources for nucleic acid tests and radiographic examination.\n\n\n","id":"PMC7196382","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Elsevier","authors":[{"firstname":"Qilin","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Xiuli","surname":"Ding","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Geqing","surname":"Xia","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Heng-Gui","surname":"Chen","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Fenghua","surname":"Chen","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Zhi","surname":"Geng","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Luming","surname":"Xu","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Shijun","surname":"Lei","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"An","surname":"Pan","email":"panan@hust.edu.cn","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Lin","surname":"Wang","email":"lin_wang@hust.edu.cn","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Zheng","surname":"Wang","email":"zhengwang@hust.edu.cn","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.1001/jamacardio.2020.0950","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Association of cardiac injury with mortality in hospitalized patients with COVID-19 in Wuhan, China","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1001/jamacardio.2020.1017","date":"2020-03-09","title":"Cardiovascular Implications of Fatal Outcomes of Patients With Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19)","abstract":"This case series study evaluates the association of underlying cardiovascular disease and myocardial injury on fatal outcomes in patients with coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19).\n","id":"PMC7101506","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"American Medical Association","authors":[{"firstname":"Tao","surname":"Guo","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yongzhen","surname":"Fan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ming","surname":"Chen","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Xiaoyan","surname":"Wu","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Lin","surname":"Zhang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Tao","surname":"He","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Hairong","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jing","surname":"Wan","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Xinghuan","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Zhibing","surname":"Lu","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.1016/S0140-6736(20)30566-3","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Clinical course and risk factors for mortality of adult inpatients with COVID-19 in Wuhan, China: a retrospective cohort study","abstract":"Background\nSince December, 2019, Wuhan, China, has experienced an outbreak of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19), caused by the severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2).\n\n Epidemiological and clinical characteristics of patients with COVID-19 have been reported but risk factors for mortality and a detailed clinical course of illness, including viral shedding, have not been well described.\n\n\nMethods\nIn this retrospective, multicentre cohort study, we included all adult inpatients (?18 years old) with laboratory-confirmed COVID-19 from Jinyintan Hospital and Wuhan Pulmonary Hospital (Wuhan, China) who had been discharged or had died by Jan 31, 2020. Demographic, clinical, treatment, and laboratory data, including serial samples for viral RNA detection, were extracted from electronic medical records and compared between survivors and non-survivors.\n\n We used univariable and multivariable logistic regression methods to explore the risk factors associated with in-hospital death.\n\n\nFindings\n191 patients (135 from Jinyintan Hospital and 56 from Wuhan Pulmonary Hospital) were included in this study, of whom 137 were discharged and 54 died in hospital.\n\n 91 (48%) patients had a comorbidity, with hypertension being the most common (58 [30%] patients), followed by diabetes (36 [19%] patients) and coronary heart disease (15 [8%] patients).\n\n Multivariable regression showed increasing odds of in-hospital death associated with older age (odds ratio 1·10, 95% CI 1·03–1·17, per year increase; p=0·0043), higher Sequential Organ Failure Assessment (SOFA) score (5·65, 2·61–12·23; p&lt;0·0001), and d-dimer greater than 1 ?g/mL (18·42, 2·64–128·55; p=0·0033) on admission.\n\n Median duration of viral shedding was 20·0 days (IQR 17·0–24·0) in survivors, but SARS-CoV-2 was detectable until death in non-survivors.\n\n The longest observed duration of viral shedding in survivors was 37 days.\n\n\nInterpretation\nThe potential risk factors of older age, high SOFA score, and d-dimer greater than 1 ?g/mL could help clinicians to identify patients with poor prognosis at an early stage.\n\n Prolonged viral shedding provides the rationale for a strategy of isolation of infected patients and optimal antiviral interventions in the future.\n\n\nFunding\nChinese Academy of Medical Sciences Innovation Fund for Medical Sciences; National Science Grant for Distinguished Young Scholars; National Key Research and Development Program of China; The Beijing Science and Technology Project; and Major Projects of National Science and Technology on New Drug Creation and Development.\n\n\n","id":"PMC7270627","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Elsevier Ltd.","authors":[{"firstname":"Fei","surname":"Zhou","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ting","surname":"Yu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ronghui","surname":"Du","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Guohui","surname":"Fan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ying","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zhibo","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jie","surname":"Xiang","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Yeming","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Bin","surname":"Song","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Xiaoying","surname":"Gu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Lulu","surname":"Guan","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Yuan","surname":"Wei","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hui","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xudong","surname":"Wu","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jiuyang","surname":"Xu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Shengjin","surname":"Tu","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Yi","surname":"Zhang","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Hua","surname":"Chen","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Bin","surname":"Cao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1016/j.xcrm.2020.100052","date":"2020-06-18","title":"Human iPSC-Derived Cardiomyocytes Are Susceptible to SARS-CoV-2 Infection","abstract":"Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) is a pandemic caused by severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2).\n COVID-19 is defined by respiratory symptoms, but cardiac complications including viral myocarditis are also prevalent.\n Although ischemic and inflammatory responses caused by COVID-19 can detrimentally affect cardiac function, the direct impact of SARS-CoV-2 infection on human cardiomyocytes is not well understood.\n Here, we utilize human induced pluripotent stem cell-derived cardiomyocytes (hiPSC-CMs) as a model to examine the mechanisms of cardiomyocyte-specific infection by SARS-CoV-2. Microscopy and RNA sequencing demonstrate that SARS-CoV-2 can enter hiPSC-CMs via ACE2. Viral replication and cytopathic effect induce hiPSC-CM apoptosis and cessation of beating after 72 h of infection.\n SARS-CoV-2 infection activates innate immune response and antiviral clearance gene pathways, while inhibiting metabolic pathways and suppressing ACE2 expression.\n These studies show that SARS-CoV-2 can infect hiPSC-CMs in vitro, establishing a model for elucidating infection mechanisms and potentially a cardiac-specific antiviral drug screening platform.\n","id":"PMC7323681","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Elsevier","authors":[{"firstname":"Arun","surname":"Sharma","email":"arun.sharma@cshs.org","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Gustavo","surname":"Garcia","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Yizhou","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jasmine T.","surname":"Plummer","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Kouki","surname":"Morizono","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Vaithilingaraja","surname":"Arumugaswami","email":"varumugaswami@mednet.ucla.edu","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Clive N.","surname":"Svendsen","email":"clive.svendsen@cshs.org","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.1016/j.ajem.2020.04.048","date":"2020-04-14","title":"Cardiovascular complications in COVID-19","abstract":"Background\nThe coronavirus disease of 2019 (COVID-19) is caused by the severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2).\n\n While systemic inflammation and pulmonary complications can result in significant morbidity and mortality, cardiovascular complications may also occur.\n\n\nObjective\nThis brief report evaluates cardiovascular complications in the setting of COVID-19 infection.\n\n\nDiscussion\nThe current COVID-19 pandemic has resulted in over one million infected worldwide and thousands of death.\n\n The virus binds and enters through angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2).\n\n COVID-19 can result in systemic inflammation, multiorgan dysfunction, and critical illness.\n\n The cardiovascular system is also affected, with complications including myocardial injury, myocarditis, acute myocardial infarction, heart failure, dysrhythmias, and venous thromboembolic events.\n\n Current therapies for COVID-19 may interact with cardiovascular medications.\n\n\nConclusions\nEmergency clinicians should be aware of these cardiovascular complications when evaluating and managing the patient with COVID-19.\n","id":"PMC7165109","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"W B Saunders","authors":[{"firstname":"Brit","surname":"Long","email":"brit.long@yahoo.com","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"William J.","surname":"Brady","email":"WB4Z@hscmail.mcc.virginia.edu","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Alex","surname":"Koyfman","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Michael","surname":"Gottlieb","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1136/heartjnl-2020-317186","date":"1970-01-01","title":"COVID-19 pandemic and troponin: indirect myocardial injury, myocardial inflammation or myocarditis?","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/S0140-6736(20)30937-5","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Endothelial cell infection and endotheliitis in COVID-19","abstract":"","id":"PMC7172722","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Elsevier Ltd.","authors":[{"firstname":"Zsuzsanna","surname":"Varga","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Andreas J","surname":"Flammer","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Peter","surname":"Steiger","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Martina","surname":"Haberecker","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Rea","surname":"Andermatt","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Annelies S","surname":"Zinkernagel","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Mandeep R","surname":"Mehra","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Reto A","surname":"Schuepbach","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Frank","surname":"Ruschitzka","email":"frank.ruschitzka@usz.ch","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Holger","surname":"Moch","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"A novel coronavirus outbreak of global health concern","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Novel coronavirus - Thailand (ex-China). Geneva: World Health Organization","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Novel Coronavirus - Japan (ex-China). Geneva: World Health Organization","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Update on the novel coronavirus pneumonia outbreak (Jan 24, 2020). Beijing: China National Health Commission","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Novel coronavirus - Republic of Korea (ex-China). Geneva: World Health Organization","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"First travel-related case of 2019 novel coronavirus detected in United States. Atlanta, GA: US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/S0140-6736(20)30154-9","date":"1970-01-01","title":"A familial cluster of pneumonia associated with the 2019 novel coronavirus indicating person-to-person transmission: a study of a family cluster","abstract":"Background\nAn ongoing outbreak of pneumonia associated with a novel coronavirus was reported in Wuhan city, Hubei province, China.\n\n Affected patients were geographically linked with a local wet market as a potential source.\n\n No data on person-to-person or nosocomial transmission have been published to date.\n\n\nMethods\nIn this study, we report the epidemiological, clinical, laboratory, radiological, and microbiological findings of five patients in a family cluster who presented with unexplained pneumonia after returning to Shenzhen, Guangdong province, China, after a visit to Wuhan, and an additional family member who did not travel to Wuhan.\n\n Phylogenetic analysis of genetic sequences from these patients were done.\n\n\nFindings\nFrom Jan 10, 2020, we enrolled a family of six patients who travelled to Wuhan from Shenzhen between Dec 29, 2019 and Jan 4, 2020. Of six family members who travelled to Wuhan, five were identified as infected with the novel coronavirus.\n\n Additionally, one family member, who did not travel to Wuhan, became infected with the virus after several days of contact with four of the family members.\n\n None of the family members had contacts with Wuhan markets or animals, although two had visited a Wuhan hospital.\n\n Five family members (aged 36–66 years) presented with fever, upper or lower respiratory tract symptoms, or diarrhoea, or a combination of these 3–6 days after exposure.\n\n They presented to our hospital (The University of Hong Kong-Shenzhen Hospital, Shenzhen) 6–10 days after symptom onset.\n\n They and one asymptomatic child (aged 10 years) had radiological ground-glass lung opacities.\n\n Older patients (aged &gt;60 years) had more systemic symptoms, extensive radiological ground-glass lung changes, lymphopenia, thrombocytopenia, and increased C-reactive protein and lactate dehydrogenase levels.\n\n The nasopharyngeal or throat swabs of these six patients were negative for known respiratory microbes by point-of-care multiplex RT-PCR, but five patients (four adults and the child) were RT-PCR positive for genes encoding the internal RNA-dependent RNA polymerase and surface Spike protein of this novel coronavirus, which were confirmed by Sanger sequencing.\n\n Phylogenetic analysis of these five patients' RT-PCR amplicons and two full genomes by next-generation sequencing showed that this is a novel coronavirus, which is closest to the bat severe acute respiatory syndrome (SARS)-related coronaviruses found in Chinese horseshoe bats.\n\n\nInterpretation\nOur findings are consistent with person-to-person transmission of this novel coronavirus in hospital and family settings, and the reports of infected travellers in other geographical regions.\n\n\nFunding\nThe Shaw Foundation Hong Kong, Michael Seak-Kan Tong, Respiratory Viral Research Foundation Limited, Hui Ming, Hui Hoy and Chow Sin Lan Charity Fund Limited, Marina Man-Wai Lee, the Hong Kong Hainan Commercial Association South China Microbiology Research Fund, Sanming Project of Medicine (Shenzhen), and High Level-Hospital Program (Guangdong Health Commission).\n\n\n","id":"PMC7159286","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Elsevier Ltd.","authors":[{"firstname":"Jasper Fuk-Woo","surname":"Chan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Shuofeng","surname":"Yuan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Kin-Hang","surname":"Kok","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Kelvin Kai-Wang","surname":"To","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hin","surname":"Chu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jin","surname":"Yang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Fanfan","surname":"Xing","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jieling","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Cyril Chik-Yan","surname":"Yip","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Rosana Wing-Shan","surname":"Poon","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hoi-Wah","surname":"Tsoi","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Simon Kam-Fai","surname":"Lo","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Kwok-Hung","surname":"Chan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Vincent Kwok-Man","surname":"Poon","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Wan-Mui","surname":"Chan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jonathan Daniel","surname":"Ip","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jian-Piao","surname":"Cai","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Vincent Chi-Chung","surname":"Cheng","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Honglin","surname":"Chen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Christopher Kim-Ming","surname":"Hui","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Kwok-Yung","surname":"Yuen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1016/S0140-6736(20)30183-5","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Clinical features of patients infected with 2019 novel coronavirus in Wuhan, China","abstract":"Background\nA recent cluster of pneumonia cases in Wuhan, China, was caused by a novel betacoronavirus, the 2019 novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV).\n\n We report the epidemiological, clinical, laboratory, and radiological characteristics and treatment and clinical outcomes of these patients.\n\n\nMethods\nAll patients with suspected 2019-nCoV were admitted to a designated hospital in Wuhan.\n\n We prospectively collected and analysed data on patients with laboratory-confirmed 2019-nCoV infection by real-time RT-PCR and next-generation sequencing.\n\n Data were obtained with standardised data collection forms shared by WHO and the International Severe Acute Respiratory and Emerging Infection Consortium from electronic medical records.\n\n Researchers also directly communicated with patients or their families to ascertain epidemiological and symptom data.\n\n Outcomes were also compared between patients who had been admitted to the intensive care unit (ICU) and those who had not.\n\n\nFindings\nBy Jan 2, 2020, 41 admitted hospital patients had been identified as having laboratory-confirmed 2019-nCoV infection.\n\n Most of the infected patients were men (30 [73%] of 41); less than half had underlying diseases (13 [32%]), including diabetes (eight [20%]), hypertension (six [15%]), and cardiovascular disease (six [15%]).\n\n Median age was 49·0 years (IQR 41·0–58·0).\n\n 27 (66%) of 41 patients had been exposed to Huanan seafood market.\n\n One family cluster was found.\n\n Common symptoms at onset of illness were fever (40 [98%] of 41 patients), cough (31 [76%]), and myalgia or fatigue (18 [44%]); less common symptoms were sputum production (11 [28%] of 39), headache (three [8%] of 38), haemoptysis (two [5%] of 39), and diarrhoea (one [3%] of 38).\n\n Dyspnoea developed in 22 (55%) of 40 patients (median time from illness onset to dyspnoea 8·0 days [IQR 5·0–13·0]).\n\n 26 (63%) of 41 patients had lymphopenia.\n\n All 41 patients had pneumonia with abnormal findings on chest CT.\n\n Complications included acute respiratory distress syndrome (12 [29%]), RNAaemia (six [15%]), acute cardiac injury (five [12%]) and secondary infection (four [10%]).\n\n 13 (32%) patients were admitted to an ICU and six (15%) died.\n\n Compared with non-ICU patients, ICU patients had higher plasma levels of IL2, IL7, IL10, GSCF, IP10, MCP1, MIP1A, and TNF?.\n\n\nInterpretation\nThe 2019-nCoV infection caused clusters of severe respiratory illness similar to severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus and was associated with ICU admission and high mortality.\n\n Major gaps in our knowledge of the origin, epidemiology, duration of human transmission, and clinical spectrum of disease need fulfilment by future studies.\n\n\nFunding\nMinistry of Science and Technology, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences, National Natural Science Foundation of China, and Beijing Municipal Science and Technology Commission.\n\n\n","id":"PMC7159299","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Elsevier Ltd.","authors":[{"firstname":"Chaolin","surname":"Huang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yeming","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xingwang","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Lili","surname":"Ren","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jianping","surname":"Zhao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yi","surname":"Hu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Li","surname":"Zhang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Guohui","surname":"Fan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jiuyang","surname":"Xu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xiaoying","surname":"Gu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zhenshun","surname":"Cheng","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ting","surname":"Yu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jiaan","surname":"Xia","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yuan","surname":"Wei","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Wenjuan","surname":"Wu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xuelei","surname":"Xie","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Wen","surname":"Yin","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hui","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Min","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yan","surname":"Xiao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hong","surname":"Gao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Li","surname":"Guo","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jungang","surname":"Xie","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Guangfa","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Rongmeng","surname":"Jiang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zhancheng","surname":"Gao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Qi","surname":"Jin","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jianwei","surname":"Wang","email":"wangjw28@163.com","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Bin","surname":"Cao","email":"caobin_ben@163.com","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The epidemiology of severe acute respiratory syndrome in the 2003 Hong Kong epidemic: an analysis of all 1755 patients","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV) situation report - 2 (22 January 2020). Geneva: World Health Organization","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus (MERS-CoV). Geneva: World Health Organization","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Epidemiological, demographic, and clinical characteristics of 47 cases of Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus disease from Saudi Arabia: a descriptive study","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Summary of probable SARS cases with onset of illness from 1 November 2002 to 31 July 2003. Geneva: World Health Organization","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Age- and sex-specific mortality associated with the 1918-1919 influenza pandemic in Kentucky","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Epidemiology and cause of severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) in Guangdong, People's Republic of China, in February, 2003","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Statement on the meeting of the International Health Regulations (2005) Emergency Committee regarding the outbreak of novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV). Geneva, World Health Organization","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Announcement from the Headquarter for novel coronavirus pneumonia prevention and control (No 1). Beijing: China National Health Commission","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Clinical management of severe acute respiratory infection when novel coronavirus (nCoV) infection is suspected. Geneva, World Health Organization","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Where do women birth during a pandemic? Changing perspectives on safe motherhood during the COVID-19 pandemic","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Winter and the key infection prevention and control practices","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Infection prevention and control in home nursing: case study of four organisations in Australia","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Creating a meaningful infection control program: one home healthcare agency's lessons","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Infection control and the home care environment","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[{"doi":"10.1016/j.archger.2022.104708","date":"2022-04-19","title":"Physical, social, and dietary behavioral changes during the COVID-19 crisis and their effects on functional capacity in older adults","abstract":"\nBackground\n\nThis two-year follow-up study aimed to identify factors associated with unhealthy behaviors during the COVID-19 pandemic and examine their impact on functional capacity in older adults.\n\n\n\nMethods\n\nAltogether, 536 adults aged ?65 years participated in this study.\n\n The frequency of going out, exercise habits, face-to-face and non-face-to-face interactions, social participation, and eating habits were examined as behavioral factors before and after the first declaration of a state of emergency in Japan.\n\n Functional capacity was assessed using the Tokyo Metropolitan Institute of Gerontology Index of Competence.\n\n\n\nResults\n\nUsing latent class analysis considering changes in the six behaviors, the participants were divided into healthy (n = 289) and unhealthy (n = 247) behavior groups.\n\n The male sex was associated with 2.36 times higher odds, diabetes with 2.19 times higher odds, depressive mood with 1.83 times higher odds, poor subjective economic status with 2.62 times higher odds, and living alone with 44% lower odds of being unhealthy.\n\n The unhealthy behavior group showed significantly decreased functional capacity (B =?1.56 [?1.98, ?1.14]) than the healthy behavior group.\n\n For each behavior, negative changes in going out (B =?0.99 [?1.60, ?0.37]), face-to-face interaction (B =?0.65 [?1.16, ?0.13]), and non-face-to-face interactions (B =?0.80 [?1.36, ?0.25]) were associated with a decline in functional capacity.\n\n\n\nConclusion\n\nOur results showed four factors associated with engaging in unhealthy lifestyle behaviors and how behavioral changes affect functional capacity decline during the COVID-19 pandemic, which will help to develop public health approaches\n","id":"PMC9022396","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Elsevier B.V.","authors":[{"firstname":"Takumi","surname":"Abe","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Yu","surname":"Nofuji","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Satoshi","surname":"Seino","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Toshiki","surname":"Hata","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Miki","surname":"Narita","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Yuri","surname":"Yokoyama","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Hidenori","surname":"Amano","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Akihiko","surname":"Kitamura","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Shoji","surname":"Shinkai","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Yoshinori","surname":"Fujiwara","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.1186/s12877-022-03043-1","date":"2022-04-01","title":"Changes in objectively measured lifestyle factors during the COVID-19 pandemic in community-dwelling older adults","abstract":"Background\nid='Par1'>In this manuscript, we investigate whether objectively measured lifestyle factors, including walking steps, sedentary time, amount of unforced physical activity, level of slight and energetic physical activity, conversation time, and sleep parameters, were altered before and during the COVID-19 pandemic among community-dwelling older adults.\n\n\nMethods\nid='Par2'>Data were obtained from a prospective cohort study conducted from 2015 to 2019 and a subsequent dementia prevention study undertaken in September 2020. Community-dwelling adults aged???65 years wore wearable sensors before and during the pandemic.\n\n\nResults\nid='Par3'>A total of 56 adults were enrolled in this study.\n\n The mean age was 74.2?±?3.9 years, and 58.9% (n?=?33) of the participants were female.\n\n Moderate and vigorous physical activity time significantly decreased, and sedentary time significantly increased during the pandemic.\n\n\nConclusions\nid='Par4'>This is the first study to demonstrate differences in objectively assessed lifestyle factors before and during the COVID-19 pandemic among community-dwelling older adults.\n\n The findings show that the pandemic has adversely affected physical activity among older adults living on their own in Japan.\n\n\n","id":"PMC9008373","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"BioMed Central","authors":[{"firstname":"Takuya","surname":"Ataka","email":"t-ataka@oita-u.ac.jp","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Noriyuki","surname":"Kimura","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Atsuko","surname":"Eguchi","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Etsuro","surname":"Matsubara","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.1016/j.puhe.2022.03.006","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Socio-economic inequalities in physical activity among Japanese adults during the COVID-19 pandemic","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1001/jama.2020.5394","date":"1970-01-01","title":"COVID-19 Lombardy ICU Network. Baseline characteristics and outcomes of 1591 patients infected with SARS-CoV-2 admitted to ICUs of the Lombardy region, Italy","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/S1473-3099(20)30243-7","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Estimates of the severity of coronavirus disease 2019: a model-based analysis","abstract":"Background\nIn the face of rapidly changing data, a range of case fatality ratio estimates for coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) have been produced that differ substantially in magnitude.\n\n We aimed to provide robust estimates, accounting for censoring and ascertainment biases.\n\n\nMethods\nWe collected individual-case data for patients who died from COVID-19 in Hubei, mainland China (reported by national and provincial health commissions to Feb 8, 2020), and for cases outside of mainland China (from government or ministry of health websites and media reports for 37 countries, as well as Hong Kong and Macau, until Feb 25, 2020).\n\n These individual-case data were used to estimate the time between onset of symptoms and outcome (death or discharge from hospital).\n\n We next obtained age-stratified estimates of the case fatality ratio by relating the aggregate distribution of cases to the observed cumulative deaths in China, assuming a constant attack rate by age and adjusting for demography and age-based and location-based under-ascertainment.\n\n We also estimated the case fatality ratio from individual line-list data on 1334 cases identified outside of mainland China.\n\n Using data on the prevalence of PCR-confirmed cases in international residents repatriated from China, we obtained age-stratified estimates of the infection fatality ratio.\n\n Furthermore, data on age-stratified severity in a subset of 3665 cases from China were used to estimate the proportion of infected individuals who are likely to require hospitalisation.\n\n\nFindings\nUsing data on 24 deaths that occurred in mainland China and 165 recoveries outside of China, we estimated the mean duration from onset of symptoms to death to be 17·8 days (95% credible interval [CrI] 16·9–19·2) and to hospital discharge to be 24·7 days (22·9–28·1).\n\n In all laboratory confirmed and clinically diagnosed cases from mainland China (n=70?117), we estimated a crude case fatality ratio (adjusted for censoring) of 3·67% (95% CrI 3·56–3·80).\n\n However, after further adjusting for demography and under-ascertainment, we obtained a best estimate of the case fatality ratio in China of 1·38% (1·23–1·53), with substantially higher ratios in older age groups (0·32% [0·27–0·38] in those aged &lt;60 years vs 6·4% [5·7–7·2] in those aged ?60 years), up to 13·4% (11·2–15·9) in those aged 80 years or older.\n\n Estimates of case fatality ratio from international cases stratified by age were consistent with those from China (parametric estimate 1·4% [0·4–3·5] in those aged &lt;60 years [n=360] and 4·5% [1·8–11·1] in those aged ?60 years [n=151]).\n\n Our estimated overall infection fatality ratio for China was 0·66% (0·39–1·33), with an increasing profile with age.\n\n Similarly, estimates of the proportion of infected individuals likely to be hospitalised increased with age up to a maximum of 18·4% (11·0–37·6) in those aged 80 years or older.\n\n\nInterpretation\nThese early estimates give an indication of the fatality ratio across the spectrum of COVID-19 disease and show a strong age gradient in risk of death.\n\n\nFunding\nUK Medical Research Council.\n\n\n","id":"PMC7158570","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Elsevier Science ;, The Lancet Pub. Group","authors":[{"firstname":"Robert","surname":"Verity","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Lucy C","surname":"Okell","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ilaria","surname":"Dorigatti","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Peter","surname":"Winskill","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Charles","surname":"Whittaker","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Natsuko","surname":"Imai","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Gina","surname":"Cuomo-Dannenburg","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Hayley","surname":"Thompson","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Patrick G T","surname":"Walker","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Han","surname":"Fu","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Amy","surname":"Dighe","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jamie T","surname":"Griffin","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Marc","surname":"Baguelin","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Sangeeta","surname":"Bhatia","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Adhiratha","surname":"Boonyasiri","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Anne","surname":"Cori","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Zulma","surname":"Cucunubá","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Rich","surname":"FitzJohn","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Katy","surname":"Gaythorpe","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Will","surname":"Green","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Arran","surname":"Hamlet","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Wes","surname":"Hinsley","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Daniel","surname":"Laydon","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Gemma","surname":"Nedjati-Gilani","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Steven","surname":"Riley","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Sabine","surname":"van Elsland","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Erik","surname":"Volz","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Haowei","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Yuanrong","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Xiaoyue","surname":"Xi","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Christl A","surname":"Donnelly","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Azra C","surname":"Ghani","email":"a.ghani@imperial.ac.uk","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Neil M","surname":"Ferguson","email":"neil.ferguson@imperial.ac.uk","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.1093/cid/ciaa1470","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Clinical Epidemiology of Hospitalized Patients With Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) in Japan: Report of the COVID-19 Registry Japan","abstract":"Background\nThere is limited understanding of the characteristics of patients with coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) requiring hospitalization in Japan.\n\n\nMethods\nThis study included 2638 cases enrolled from 227 healthcare facilities that participated in the COVID-19 Registry Japan (COVIREGI-JP).\n\n The inclusion criteria for enrollment of a case in COVIREGI-JP are both (1) a positive severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) test and (2) inpatient treatment at a healthcare facility.\n\n\nResults\nThe median age of hospitalized patients with COVID-19 was 56 years (interquartile range [IQR], 40–71 years).\n\n More than half of cases were male (58.9%, 1542/2619).\n\n Nearly 60% of the cases had close contact to confirmed or suspected cases of COVID-19. The median duration of symptoms before admission was 7 days (IQR, 4–10 days).\n\n The most common comorbidities were hypertension (15%, 396/2638) and diabetes without complications (14.2%, 374/2638).\n\n The number of nonsevere cases (68.2%, n?=?1798) was twice the number of severe cases (31.8%, n?=?840) at admission.\n\n The respiratory support during hospitalization includes those who received no oxygen support (61.6%, 1623/2636) followed by those who received supplemental oxygen (29.9%, 788/2636) and invasive mechanical ventilation/extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (8.5%, 225/2636).\n\n Overall, 66.9% (1762/2634) of patients were discharged home, while 7.5% (197/2634) died.\n\n\nConclusions\nWe identified the clinical epidemiological features of COVID-19 in hospitalized patients in Japan.\n\n When compared with existing inpatient studies in other countries, these results demonstrated fewer comorbidities and a trend towards lower mortality.\n\n\n","id":"PMC7543311","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Oxford University Press","authors":[{"firstname":"Nobuaki","surname":"Matsunaga","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Kayoko","surname":"Hayakawa","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Mari","surname":"Terada","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Mari","surname":"Terada","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hiroshi","surname":"Ohtsu","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Yusuke","surname":"Asai","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Shinya","surname":"Tsuzuki","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Setsuko","surname":"Suzuki","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Ako","surname":"Toyoda","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Kumiko","surname":"Suzuki","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Mio","surname":"Endo","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Naoki","surname":"Fujii","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Michiyo","surname":"Suzuki","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Sho","surname":"Saito","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Yukari","surname":"Uemura","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Taro","surname":"Shibata","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Masashi","surname":"Kondo","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Kazuo","surname":"Izumi","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Junko","surname":"Terada-Hirashima","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ayako","surname":"Mikami","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Wataru","surname":"Sugiura","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Norio","surname":"Ohmagari","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"}]},{"doi":"10.1186/s13613-021-00959-6","date":"2021-11-22","title":"Association between mortality and age among mechanically ventilated COVID-19 patients: a Japanese nationwide COVID-19 database study","abstract":"Background\nid='Par1'>Only a few studies have reported the association between age and mortality in COVID-19 patients who require invasive mechanical ventilation (IMV).\n\n We aimed to evaluate the effect of age on COVID-19-related mortality among patients undergoing IMV therapy.\n\n\nMethods\nid='Par2'>This cohort study was conducted using the COVID-19 Registry Japan database, a nationwide multi-centre study of hospitalized patients with laboratory-confirmed COVID-19. Of all 33,808 cases registered between 1 January 2020 to 28 February 2021, we analysed 1555 patients who had undergone IMV.\n\n We evaluated mortality rates between age groups using multivariable regression analysis after adjusting for known potential components, such as within-hospital clustering, comorbidities, steroid use, medication for COVID-19, and vital signs on admission, using generalized estimation equation.\n\n\nResults\nid='Par3'>By age group, the mortality rates in the IMV group were 8.6%, 20.7%, 34.9%, 49.7% and 83.3% for patients in their 50s, 60s, 70s, 80s, and 90s, respectively.\n\n Multivariable analysis showed that compared with those for patients aged?&lt;?60 years, the odds ratios (95% confidence interval) of death were 2.6 (1.6–4.1), 6.9 (4.2–11.3), 13.2 (7.2–24.1), 92.6 (16.7–515.0) for patients in their 60s, 70s, 80s, and 90s, respectively.\n\n\nConclusions\nid='Par4'>In this cohort study, age had a great effect on mortality in COVID-19 patients undergoing IMV, after adjusting for variables independently associated with mortality.\n\n This study suggested that age was associated with higher mortality and that preventing progression to severe COVID-19 in elderly patients may be a great public health issue.\n\n\nSupplementary Information\nThe online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1186/s13613-021-00959-6.\n","id":"PMC8665852","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Springer International Publishing","authors":[{"firstname":"Chie","surname":"Tanaka","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Takashi","surname":"Tagami","email":"t-tagami@nms.ac.jp","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Fumihiko","surname":"Nakayama","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Saori","surname":"Kudo","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Akiko","surname":"Takehara","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Reo","surname":"Fukuda","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Junya","surname":"Kaneko","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Yoshito","surname":"Ishiki","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Shin","surname":"Sato","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ami","surname":"Shibata","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Masamune","surname":"Kuno","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Kyoko","surname":"Unemoto","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Masayuki","surname":"Hojo","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Tetsuya","surname":"Mizoue","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Yusuke","surname":"Asai","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Setsuko","surname":"Suzuki","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Norio","surname":"Ohmagari","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1186/s12877-022-03627-x","date":"2022-11-15","title":"Residents’ experiences of encounters with staff and communication in nursing homes during the Covid-19 pandemic: a qualitative interview study","abstract":"Background\nid='Par1'>The Covid-19 pandemic and associated visiting restrictions have challenged communication with others for older people residing in nursing homes.\n\n\nAim\nid='Par2'>The aim of this study was to explore residents’ experiences of encounters and communication with staff and relatives and friends during the Covid-19 pandemic.\n\n\nDesign\nid='Par3'>An exploratory study with an inductive approach.\n\n\nMethods\nid='Par4'>Semi-structured telephone interviews with 16 Swedish nursing home residents were conducted.\n\n Data were analyzed using qualitative content analysis; the study reports according to the COREQ checklist.\n\n\nResults\nid='Par5'>Three main categories emerged: (1) Mixed feelings and experiences of encounters with nursing staff, (2) Adapting to hampered communication and finding strategies to overcome language barriers, and (3) Facing pandemic restrictions and living an adjusted life.\n\n Nine subcategories are reported within these categories.\n\n Residents mainly reported good encounters with staff and receiving the care they needed, but unhelpful encounters were also reported.\n\n To manage communication with staff with limited Swedish language skills, residents developed several strategies.\n\n During the visiting ban, residents felt secure but also lonely.\n\n Staying connected with the outside world required residents to use the phone and handle other digital aids, such as video calls, but lack of technical skills among staff hindered frequent use of video calls.\n\n\nConclusion\nid='Par6'>This study highlights how residents can feel safe in extreme situations, but increased competence, including digital literacy and language skills, among staff is required.\n\n Care providers should provide relevant information to residents and staff and employ competent staff.\n\n Findings indicate that communication plans need to include enabling communication for residents both within and outside nursing homes, taking staff language skills into consideration.\n\n\nSupplementary Information\nThe online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1186/s12877-022-03627-x.\n\n\n","id":"PMC9744594","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"BioMed Central","authors":[{"firstname":"Elisabet","surname":"Eriksson","email":"elisabet.eriksson@hig.se","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Katarina","surname":"Hjelm","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Kaigogenba ni Okeru Kannsenntaisaku no Tebiki. (A Guide to Infection Control in Nursing Homes)","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/j.seps.2023.101516","date":"2023-01-20","title":"Multi-mitigation strategies in medical supplies for epidemic outbreaks","abstract":"The outbreak of Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) highlights the importance of sufficient medical supplies stockpiling at the pre-event stage.\n In contrast, the potential disadvantages of maintaining adequate items at strategic locations (i.\ne.\n, reserves) are considerable inventory-related costs.\n Unpredicted demand leads to a high degree of uncertainty.\n Efforts to mitigate the uncertainty should rely not only on prepositioning supplies at reserves but also on integrating various channels of medical materials.\n This paper proposes multi-mitigation strategies in medical supplies to ensure uninterrupted supply for hospitals and significant savings by introducing two-type suppliers, reserving and manufacturing suppliers.\n Thus, each hospital with uncertain demand is enabled to be served by various channels during pandemics: prepositioning in reserves, backups served by reserving suppliers, and medical commodities produced by manufacturing suppliers.\n Stochasticity is also incorporated into the raw materials available to produce.\n This research aims to develop an emergency response application that integrates preparedness action (reserve location, inventory level, and contract supplier's selection) with post-event operations (allocating medical materials from various channels).\n We formulate a two-stage stochastic mixed integer program to determine prepositioning strategy, including two-type suppliers' selection, and post-event allocation of multiple sources.\n A branch-and-Benders-cut method is developed for this problem and significantly outperforms both the classical Benders decomposition and Gurobi in the solution time.\n Different-sized test instances also verify the robustness of the proposed method.\n Based on a realistic and typical case study (inspired by the COVID-19 pandemic in Wuhan, China), significant savings, an increase in inventory utilization and an increase in demand fulfilment are obtained by our approach.\n","id":"PMC9867827","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Elsevier Ltd.","authors":[{"firstname":"Yuwei","surname":"Zhang","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Zhenping","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Yuwei","surname":"Zhao","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.1016/j.jamda.2020.09.031","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Evaluating Perspectives of Relatives of Nursing Home Residents on the Nursing Home Visiting Restrictions During the COVID-19 Crisis: A Dutch Cross-Sectional Survey Study","abstract":"Objectives\nCoronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) has caused many nursing homes to prohibit resident visits to prevent viral spread.\n\n Although visiting restrictions are instituted to prolong the life of nursing home residents, they may detrimentally affect their quality of life.\n\n The aim of this study was to capture perspectives from the relatives of nursing home residents on nursing home visiting restrictions.\n\n\nDesign\nA cross-sectional online survey was conducted.\n\n\nSetting and Participants\nA convenience sample of Dutch relatives of nursing home residents (n = 1997) completed an online survey on their perspectives regarding nursing home visiting restrictions.\n\n\nMethods\nThe survey included Likert-item, multiselect, and open-answer questions targeting 4 key areas: (1) communication access to residents, (2) adverse effects of visiting restrictions on residents and relatives, (3) potential protective effect of visiting restrictions, (4) important aspects for relatives during and after visiting restrictions.\n\n\nResults\nSatisfaction of communication access to nursing home residents was highest when respondents had the possibility to communicate with nursing home residents by nurses informing them via telephone, contact behind glass, and contact outside maintaining physical distance.\n\n Satisfaction rates increased when respondents had multiple opportunities to stay in contact with residents.\n\n Respondents were concerned that residents had increased loneliness (76%), sadness (66%), and decreased quality of life (62%), whereas study respondents reported personal sadness (73%) and fear (26%).\n\n There was no consensus among respondents if adverse effects of the visiting restrictions outweighed the protective effect for nursing home residents.\n\n Respondents expressed the need for increased information, communication options, and better safety protocols.\n\n\nConclusion and Implications\nProviding multiple opportunities to stay in touch with nursing home residents can increase satisfaction of communication between residents and relatives.\n\n Increased context-specific information, communication options, and safety protocols should be addressed in national health policy.\n\n\n","id":"PMC7524682","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. on behalf of AMDA - The Society for Post-Acute and Long-Term Care Medicine.","authors":[{"firstname":"Joost D.","surname":"Wammes","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Daisy","surname":"Kolk, MSc","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Judith H.","surname":"van den Besselaar, MD","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Janet L.","surname":"MacNeil-Vroomen, PhD","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Bianca M.","surname":"Buurman-van Es, RN","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Marjon","surname":"van Rijn, PhD","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Cabinet Office, Shingatakorona Virus No Eikyokaniokeru Seikatsuisiki Koudou No Henka Ni Kannsuru Tyousa (Survey on Changes in Lifestyle Awareness and Behavior under the Influence of New Coronavirus Infection)","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.3390/ijgi10020103","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Escaping from Cities during the COVID-19 Crisis: Using Mobile Phone Data to Trace Mobility in Finland","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/j.scs.2021.102911","date":"2021-03-31","title":"Are high-density districts more vulnerable to the COVID-19 pandemic?","abstract":"The COVID-19 pandemic has brought questions about the desirability of compact urban development to the fore.\n There are some concerns that high density may be a risk factor that makes it challenging to contain the pandemic.\n This study aims to investigate the link between density and pandemic spread through a case study of Tehran that has been the epicenter of the pandemic in Iran.\n Based on data obtained from an online platform and analyzed using structural equation modeling, we found that density alone cannot be considered a risk factor for the spread of COVID-19. In fact, density alone did not explain the geographic distribution pattern of confirmed COVID-19 cases and deaths across the 22 municipal districts of Tehran.\n We, therefore, argue that efforts should be made to minimize concerns about living in dense urban environments.\n Indeed, residents of high-density districts can live safely when an outbreak occurs, provided they make some changes in lifestyle and follow public health instructions.\n Based on the findings, and considering other benefits of compact cities (e.\ng.\n, climate change mitigation) planners and policy makers are encouraged to continue promoting compact urban forms.\n They can also use the results of this study in their efforts towards developing appropriate mechanisms and guidelines for effective management of future pandemics in cities.\n","id":"PMC9760197","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Elsevier Ltd.","authors":[{"firstname":"Amir Reza","surname":"Khavarian-Garmsir","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ayyoob","surname":"Sharifi","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Nabi","surname":"Moradpour","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.1016/j.jad.2021.03.028","date":"2021-03-11","title":"Urbanization level and neighborhood deprivation, not COVID-19 case numbers by residence area, are associated with severe psychological distress and new-onset suicidal ideation during the COVID-19 pandemic","abstract":"Background\nRecent studies indicate an urgent need to take action against mental health issues during the COVID-19 pandemic.\n\n However, the association between larger-scale environmental factors such as living conditions and mental health problems during the pandemic is currently unknown.\n\n\nMethods\nA nationwide, cross-sectional internet survey was conducted in Japan between August and September 2020 to examine the association between urbanization level and neighborhood deprivation as living conditions and COVID-19 case numbers by prefecture.\n\n Prevalence ratios (PRs) for severe psychological distress, suicidal ideation, and new-onset suicidal ideation during the pandemic were adjusted for potential confounders.\n\n\nResults\nAmong 24,819 responses analyzed, the prevalence of mental health problems was 9.2% for severe psychological distress and 3.6% for new-onset suicidal ideation.\n\n PRs for severe psychological distress were significantly associated with higher urbanization level (highest PR = 1.30, 95% CI = 1.08-1.56).\n\n PRs for new-onset suicidal ideation were significantly associated with higher urbanization level (highest PR = 1.83, 95% CI = 1.37-2.45) and greater neighborhood deprivation (highest PR = 1.35, 95% CI = 1.06-1.72).\n\n Severe psychological distress and new-onset suicidal ideation were significantly more prevalent when there was higher urbanization plus lower neighborhood deprivation (PR = 1.34 [1.15-1.56], and 1.57 [1.22-2.03], respectively).\n\n\nConclusion\nThese findings suggest that it is not the number of COVID-19 cases by residence area but higher urbanization level and greater neighborhood deprivation (lower neighborhood-level socioeconomic status) that are associated with severe psychological distress and new-onset suicidal ideation during the pandemic.\n\n These findings differ in part from evidence obtained before the pandemic.\n\n\n","id":"PMC9754685","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Elsevier B.V.","authors":[{"firstname":"Ryo","surname":"Okubo","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Takashi","surname":"Yoshioka","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Tomoki","surname":"Nakaya","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Tomoya","surname":"Hanibuchi","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Hiroki","surname":"Okano","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Satoru","surname":"Ikezawa","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Kanami","surname":"Tsuno","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Hiroshi","surname":"Murayama","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Takahiro","surname":"Tabuchi","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1249/MSS.0000000000002200","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Temporal muscle-specific disuse atrophy during one week of leg immobilization","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1007/s11357-020-00272-3","date":"2020-09-16","title":"Sarcopenia during COVID-19 lockdown restrictions: long-term health effects of short-term muscle loss","abstract":"id='Par1'>The COVID-19 pandemic is an extraordinary global emergency that has led to the implementation of unprecedented measures in order to stem the spread of the infection.\n Internationally, governments are enforcing measures such as travel bans, quarantine, isolation, and social distancing leading to an extended period of time at home.\n This has resulted in reductions in physical activity and changes in dietary intakes that have the potential to accelerate sarcopenia, a deterioration of muscle mass and function (more likely in older populations), as well as increases in body fat.\n These changes in body composition are associated with a number of chronic, lifestyle diseases including cardiovascular disease (CVD), diabetes, osteoporosis, frailty, cognitive decline, and depression.\n Furthermore, CVD, diabetes, and elevated body fat are associated with greater risk of COVID-19 infection and more severe symptomology, underscoring the importance of avoiding the development of such morbidities.\n Here we review mechanisms of sarcopenia and their relation to the current data on the effects of COVID-19 confinement on physical activity, dietary habits, sleep, and stress as well as extended bed rest due to COVID-19 hospitalization.\n The potential of these factors to lead to an increased likelihood of muscle loss and chronic disease will be discussed.\n By offering a number of home-based strategies including resistance exercise, higher protein intakes and supplementation, we can potentially guide public health authorities to avoid a lifestyle disease and rehabilitation crisis post-COVID-19. Such strategies may also serve as useful preventative measures for reducing the likelihood of sarcopenia in general and in the event of future periods of isolation.\n","id":"PMC7528158","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Springer International Publishing","authors":[{"firstname":"Richard","surname":"Kirwan","email":"r.p.kirwan@2018.ljmu.ac.uk","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Deaglan","surname":"McCullough","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Deaglan","surname":"McCullough","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Tom","surname":"Butler","email":"t.butler@chester.ac.uk","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Tom","surname":"Butler","email":"t.butler@chester.ac.uk","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Fatima","surname":"Perez de Heredia","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Fatima","surname":"Perez de Heredia","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ian G.","surname":"Davies","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Ian G.","surname":"Davies","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Claire","surname":"Stewart","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Claire","surname":"Stewart","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1111/ggi.13650","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Association between sarcopenia and depressive mood in urban-dwelling older adults: A cross-sectional study","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.3390/ijerph19106008","date":"2022-05-11","title":"Factors Related to Preventive Behaviors against a Decline in Physical Fitness among Community-Dwelling Older Adults during the COVID-19 Pandemic: A Qualitative Study","abstract":"Older adults face the concern of developing frailty and sarcopenia due to an inactive lifestyle during the coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic.\n This study aimed to reveal the preventive behaviors taken by older adults who perceived a decline in physical fitness during COVID-19 and analyze the background factors which promoted such behaviors using a qualitative study design in 2020. The participants were recruited through the cohort study of Japanese older adults who were aged 79–81 and had not been diagnosed with sarcopenia previously in 2019 and perceived their physical fitness to have declined during the pandemic.\n The interviews of 19 participants were analyzed using thematic analysis.\n The participants engaged in five types of preventive behaviors to counter declining physical fitness: “walking”, “exercising at home”, “improving daily diet”, “maintaining a daily routine”, and “taking a good rest”.\n Four themes were extracted pertaining to backgrounds of such preventive behaviors: “feeling anxiety and mental pressure”, “available networks with family and neighbors”, “prior experiences of behaviors”, and “access to information”.\n Anxiety due to lifestyle changes during the pandemic was the primary reason for the behaviors.\n This study can be a useful guide for undertaking possible measures to prevent frailty during future pandemics.\n","id":"PMC9141717","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"MDPI","authors":[{"firstname":"Yumi","surname":"Kimura","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Hiroshi","surname":"Akasaka","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Toshihito","surname":"Takahashi","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Saori","surname":"Yasumoto","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Saori","surname":"Yasumoto","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Kei","surname":"Kamide","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Kazunori","surname":"Ikebe","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Mai","surname":"Kabayama","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ayaka","surname":"Kasuga","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Hiromi","surname":"Rakugi","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Yasuyuki","surname":"Gondo","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Andreas E.","surname":"Stuck","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Andreas E.","surname":"Stuck","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"John","surname":"Babraj","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Paul B.","surname":"Tchounwou","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.1016/j.jamda.2022.04.005","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Social Engagement and Distress Among Home Care Recipients During the COVID-19 Pandemic in Ontario, Canada: A Retrospective Cohort Study","abstract":"Objectives\nTo examine factors associated with distressing social decline and withdrawal during the COVID-19 pandemic for home care recipients.\n\n\nDesign\nRetrospective cohort.\n\n\nSetting and participants\nHome care recipients age 18 years or older in Ontario, Canada without severe cognitive impairment with an assessment and follow-up between September 1, 2018 and August 31, 2020.\nMethods\nData were collected using the interRAI home care.\n\n Outcomes of interest were distressing decline in social participation and social withdrawal.\n\n Independent variables were entered into multivariable longitudinal generalized estimating equations.\n\n Interaction terms with the pandemic were tested.\n\n Those significant at P &lt; .\n\n01 were retained in final models and reported as odds ratios (ORs), 95% confidence intervals (CIs).\n\n\nResults\nWe compared 26,492 and 19,126 home care recipients before and during the pandemic, respectively.\n\n The pandemic was associated with greater odds of experiencing distressing social decline (OR 1.28, 95% CI 1.22?1.34) and withdrawal (OR 1.09, 95% CI 1.04?1.15).\n\n Living alone (OR 1.13, 95% CI 1.05?1.22), frailty (OR 3.21, 95% CI 2.76?3.73), health instability (OR 2.22, 95% CI 2.02?2.44), and depression (OR 2.14, 95% CI 2.01?2.29) increased the odds of distressing social decline.\n\n Older age (OR 0.71, 95% CI 0.65?0.77), functional impairment (OR 0.58, 95% CI 0.51?0.67), and receiving caregiving (OR 0.73, 95% CI 0.67?0.79) decreased the odds.\n\n Home care recipients with mild/moderate dementia were less likely to experience distressing social decline during the pandemic.\n\n Those who lived alone were more likely.\n\n Frailty (OR 9.49, 95% CI 7.69?11.71) and depression (OR 2.76, 95% CI 2.55?3.00) increased the odds of social withdrawal.\n\n Functional impairment (OR 0.32, 95% CI 0.27?0.39), congestive heart failure (OR 0.77, 95% CI 0.70?0.84), and receiving caregiving (OR 0.50, 95% CI 0.46?0.55) decreased the odds.\n\n Home care recipients age 18?64 years and older than 75 years were less likely to experience social withdrawal during the pandemic.\n\n\nConclusions and implications\nSocial support interventions should focus on supporting those living alone, with frailty, health instability, or depression.\n\n\n","id":"PMC9013660","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"AMDA - The Society for Post-Acute and Long-Term Care Medicine.","authors":[{"firstname":"Caitlin","surname":"McArthur","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Luke A.","surname":"Turcotte","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Chi-Ling Joanna","surname":"Sinn","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Katherine","surname":"Berg","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"John N.","surname":"Morris","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"John P.","surname":"Hirdes","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.1016/j.gerinurse.2022.11.005","date":"2022-11-09","title":"Impact of using a centralized matching process on nursing home staffing","abstract":"Objective\nTo examine the effectiveness of adopting a novel centralized matching process for reducing staff shortages in Massachusetts nursing homes during the COVID-19 pandemic.\n\n\nMethods\nThis study involved several datasets and 216 Massachusetts nursing homes that used a novel online portal to enter demand for nursing staff from May 2020 to April 2021.\nResults\nThere were significant associations between the staff-to-resident ratio and demand entries lagged by three and four weeks, and no significant associations between the staff-to-resident ratio and demand entries lagged by one and two weeks.\n\n In contrast, we found significant associations between the staff-to-resident ratio and the number of generated staff matches lagged by one, two and three weeks, with larger impacts overall.\n\n\nConclusion\nThis study shows how adopting a centralized matching process may expedite and increase improvement in the staff-to-resident ratio in nursing homes, compared with the setup in which nursing homes need to seek nurses on their own.\n\n\n","id":"PMC9709370","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Elsevier Inc.","authors":[{"firstname":"Hamid Reza","surname":"Zarei","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Yakov","surname":"Bart","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ozlem","surname":"Ergun","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Kaigojinzai no Kakuho Nitsuite (Securing Caregivers)","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/j.jamda.2020.11.022","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Front-line Nursing Home Staff Experiences During the COVID-19 Pandemic","abstract":"Objective\nThe Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic is an unprecedented challenge for nursing homes, where staff have faced rapidly evolving circumstances to care for a vulnerable resident population.\n\n Our objective was to document the experiences of these front-line health care professionals during the pandemic.\n\n\nDesign\nElectronic survey of long-term care staff.\n\n This report summarizes qualitative data from open-ended questions for the subset of respondents working in nursing homes.\n\n\nSetting and Participants\nA total of 152 nursing home staff from 32 states, including direct-care staff and administrators.\n\n\nMethods\nFrom May 11 through June 4, 2020, we used social media and professional networks to disseminate an electronic survey with closed- and open-ended questions to a convenience sample of long-term care staff.\n\n Four investigators identified themes from qualitative responses for staff working in nursing homes.\n\n\nResults\nRespondents described ongoing constraints on testing and continued reliance on crisis standards for extended use and reuse of personal protective equipment.\n\n Administrators discussed the burden of tracking and implementing sometimes confusing or contradictory guidance from numerous agencies.\n\n Direct-care staff expressed fears of infecting themselves and their families, and expressed sincere empathy and concern for their residents.\n\n They described experiencing burnout due to increased workloads, staffing shortages, and the emotional burden of caring for residents facing significant isolation, illness, and death.\n\n Respondents cited the presence or lack of organizational communication and teamwork as important factors influencing their ability to work under challenging circumstances.\n\n They also described the demoralizing impact of negative media coverage of nursing homes, contrasting this with the heroic public recognition given to hospital staff.\n\n\nConclusions and Implications\nNursing home staff described working under complex and stressful circumstances during the COVID-19 pandemic.\n\n These challenges have added significant burden to an already strained and vulnerable workforce and are likely to contribute to increased burnout, turnover, and staff shortages in the long term.\n\n\n","id":"PMC7685055","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"AMDA - The Society for Post-Acute and Long-Term Care Medicine.","authors":[{"firstname":"Elizabeth M.","surname":"White","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Terrie Fox","surname":"Wetle","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ann","surname":"Reddy","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Rosa R.","surname":"Baier","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.1016/j.jmii.2020.04.003","date":"2020-04-05","title":"Recommendations for protecting against and mitigating the COVID-19 pandemic in long-term care facilities","abstract":"The COVID-19 outbreak has drawn heightened attention from public health scholars researching ways to limit its spread.\n Much of the research has been focused on minimizing transmission in hospitals and in the general community.\n However, a particularly vulnerable community that has received relatively little attention is elders residing in long-term care facilities (LTCFs).\n In this article we address this relative lack of attention, arguing that enhanced traffic control bundling (eTCB) can and should be adopted and implemented as a means of protecting LTCF residents and staff.\n Enhanced TCB has been widely applied in hospital settings and has proven effective at limiting droplet and fomite transmissions both within hospitals and between hospitals and the general community.\n By effectively adapting eTCB to LTCF conditions, particularly by incorporating compartmentalization within zones plus active surveillance, COVID-19 transmission into and throughout LTCFs can be minimized, thereby saving numerous lives among an especially vulnerable population.\n","id":"PMC7194976","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Taiwan Society of Microbiology. Published by Elsevier Taiwan LLC.","authors":[{"firstname":"Muh-Yong","surname":"Yen","email":"myyen1121@gmail.com","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jonathan","surname":"Schwartz","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Chwan-Chuen","surname":"King","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Chung-Ming","surname":"Lee","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Po-Ren","surname":"Hsueh","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"NULL","surname":"NULL","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1136/bmjopen-2021-051447","date":"2021-08-06","title":"Global epidemiology of COVID-19 knowledge, attitude and practice: a systematic review and meta-analysis","abstract":"Objective\nTo assess the knowledge, attitude and practice (KAP) of the global general population regarding COVID-19.\nDesign\nSystematic review and meta-analysis.\n\n\nMethods\nMEDLINE, Embase, CINAHL and PsycINFO were used to identify articles published between 1 January and 30 June 2021 assessing KAP regarding COVID-19 in the global general population.\n\n The quality of eligible studies was assessed.\n\n Random effects model was used to obtain the pooled proportion of each component of KAP of COVID-19. Heterogeneity (I2) was tested, and subgroup and correlation analyses were performed.\n\n\nResults\nOut of 3099 records, 84 studies from 45 countries across all continents assessing 215 731 participants’ COVID-19 KAP were included in this study.\n\n The estimated overall correct answers for knowledge, good attitude and good practice in this review were 75% (95% CI 72% to 77%), 74% (95% CI 71% to 77%) and 70% (95% CI 66% to 74%), respectively.\n\n Low-income countries, men, people aged below 30 years and people with 12 years of education or less had the lowest practice scores.\n\n Practice scores were below 60% in Africa and Europe/Oceania.\n\n Overall heterogeneity was high (I2 ?98%), and publication bias was present (Egger’s regression test, p&lt;0.01).\n\n A positive significant correlation between knowledge and practice (r=0.314, p=0.006), and attitude and practice (r=0.348, p=0.004) was observed.\n\n\nConclusions\nThis study’s findings call for community-based awareness programmes to provide a simple, clear and understandable message to reinforce knowledge especially regarding efficacy of the preventive measures in low and lower middle-income countries, and in Africa and Europe/Oceania, which will translate into good practice.\n\n Targeted intervention for men, people with low education, unemployed people and people aged below 30 years should be recommended.\n\n As most of the included studies were online surveys, underprivileged and remote rural people may have been missed out.\n\n Additional studies are needed to cover heterogeneous populations.\n\n\nPROSPERO registration number\nCRD42020203476.\n","id":"PMC8441223","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"BMJ Publishing Group","authors":[{"firstname":"Bodrun Naher","surname":"Siddiquea","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Aishwarya","surname":"Shetty","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Aishwarya","surname":"Shetty","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Oashe","surname":"Bhattacharya","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Afsana","surname":"Afroz","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Baki","surname":"Billah","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.1001/jama.2020.2565","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Presumed asymptomatic carrier transmission of COVID-19","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Zinkodoutaitoukei","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/j.ajic.2020.10.019","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Unintended consequences of infection prevention and control measures during COVID-19 pandemic","abstract":"Background\nIn the current COVID-19 pandemic, aggressive Infection Prevention and Control (IPC) measures have been adopted to prevent health care-associated transmission of COVID-19. We evaluated the impact of a multimodal IPC strategy originally designed for the containment of COVID-19 on the rates of other hospital-acquired-infections (HAIs).\n\n\nMethodology\nFrom February-August 2020, a multimodal IPC strategy was implemented across a large health care campus in Singapore, comprising improved segregation of patients with respiratory symptoms, universal masking and heightened adherence to Standard Precautions.\n\n The following rates of HAI were compared pre- and postpandemic: health care-associated respiratory-viral-infection (HA-RVI), methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus, and CP-CRE acquisition rates, health care-facility-associated C difficile infections and device-associated HAIs.\n\n\nResults\nEnhanced IPC measures introduced to contain COVID-19 had the unintended positive consequence of containing HA-RVI.\n\n The cumulative incidence of HA-RVI decreased from 9.69 cases per 10,000 patient-days to 0.83 cases per 10,000 patient-days (incidence-rate-ratio?=?0.08; 95% confidence interval [CI] = 0.05-0.13, P&lt; .\n\n05).\n\n Hospital-wide MRSA acquisition rates declined significantly during the pandemic (incidence-rate-ratio?=?0.54, 95% CI?=?0.46-0.64, P&lt; .\n\n05), together with central-line-associated-bloodstream infection rates (incidence-rate-ratio?=?0.24, 95% CI?=?0.07-0.57, P&lt; .\n\n05); likely due to increased compliance with Standard Precautions.\n\n Despite the disruption caused by the pandemic, there was no increase in CP-CRE acquisition, and rates of other HAIs remained stable.\n\n\nConclusions\nMultimodal IPC strategies can be implemented at scale to successfully mitigate health care-associated transmission of RVIs.\n\n Good adherence to personal-protective-equipment and hand hygiene kept other HAI rates stable even during an ongoing pandemic where respiratory infections were prioritized for interventions.\n\n\n","id":"PMC7610096","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Association for Professionals in Infection Control and Epidemiology, Inc. Published by Elsevier Inc.","authors":[{"firstname":"Liang En Ian","surname":"Wee","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Edwin Philip","surname":"Conceicao","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Jing Yuan","surname":"Tan","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Kamini Devi","surname":"Magesparan","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ismawati Binte Mohamad","surname":"Amin","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Bushra Binte Shaik","surname":"Ismail","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Hui Xian","surname":"Toh","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Pinhong","surname":"Jin","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jing","surname":"Zhang","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Elaine Geok Ling","surname":"Wee","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Sheena Jin Min","surname":"Ong","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Gillian Li Xin","surname":"Lee","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Amanda En-min","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Molly Kue Bien","surname":"How","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Kwee Yuen","surname":"Tan","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Lai Chee","surname":"Lee","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Poh Choo","surname":"Phoon","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Yong","surname":"Yang","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"May Kyawt","surname":"Aung","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Xiang Ying Jean","surname":"Sim","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Indumathi","surname":"Venkatachalam","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Moi Lin","surname":"Ling","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"}]},{"doi":"10.1016/j.idh.2020.11.004","date":"2020-11-08","title":"Containment of COVID-19 and reduction in healthcare-associated respiratory viral infections through a multi-tiered infection control strategy","abstract":"Background\nDuring the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, healthcare-associated transmission of respiratory viral infections (RVI) is a concern.\n\n To reduce the impact of SARS-CoV-2 and other respiratory viruses on patients and healthcare workers (HCWs) we devised and evaluated a multi-tiered infection control strategy with the goal of preventing nosocomial transmission of SARS-CoV2 and other RVIs across a large healthcare campus.\n\n\nMethods\nFrom January–June 2020, a multi-tiered infection control strategy was implemented across a healthcare campus in Singapore, comprising the largest acute tertiary hospital as well as four other subspecialty centres, with more than 10,000 HCWs.\n\n Drawing on our institution's experience with an outbreak of Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS) in 2003, this strategy included improved patient segregation and distancing, and heightened infection prevention and control (IPC) measures including universal masking.\n\n All symptomatic patients were tested for COVID-19 and common RVIs.\n\n\nResults\nA total of 16,162 admissions campus-wide were screened; 7.1% (1155/16,162) tested positive for COVID-19. Less than 5% of COVID-19 cases (39/1155) were initially detected outside of isolation wards in multi-bedded cohorted wards.\n\n Improved distancing and enhanced IPC measures successfully mitigated onward spread even amongst COVID-19 cases detected outside of isolation.\n\n COVID-19 rates amongst HCWs were kept low (0.13%, 17/13,066) and reflected community acquisition rather than nosocomial spread.\n\n Rates of healthcare-associated-RVI amongst inpatients fell to zero and this decrease was sustained even after the lifting of visitor restrictions.\n\n\nConclusion\nThis multi-tiered infection control strategies can be implemented at-scale to successfully mitigate healthcare-associated transmission of respiratory viral pathogens.\n\n\n","id":"PMC7667403","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Australasian College for Infection Prevention and Control. Published by Elsevier B.V.","authors":[{"firstname":"Liang En","surname":"Wee","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Indumathi","surname":"Venkatachalam","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xiang Ying Jean","surname":"Sim","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Kenneth Boon-Kiat","surname":"Tan","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ruan","surname":"Wen","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Chee Kian","surname":"Tham","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Wee Hoe","surname":"Gan","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Kwan Ki Karrie","surname":"Ko","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Wan Qi","surname":"Ho","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Grace Teck Cheng","surname":"Kwek","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Edwin Philip","surname":"Conceicao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Chong Yu Edwin","surname":"Sng","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Xin Hui Jorin","surname":"Ng","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jie Yi","surname":"Ong","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Juat Lan","surname":"Chiang","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ying Ying","surname":"Chua","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Moi Lin","surname":"Ling","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Thuan Tong","surname":"Tan","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Limin","surname":"Wijaya","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.1016/S1473-3099(21)00383-2","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Hand hygiene in health care: 20 years of ongoing advances and perspectives","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1186/s40463-020-00429-2","date":"2020-05-20","title":"Guidance for otolaryngology health care workers performing aerosol generating medical procedures during the COVID-19 pandemic","abstract":"Background\nid='Par1'>Severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2), the virus responsible for Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) has a predilection for infecting the mucosa of the upper and lower airways.\n\n Otolaryngologists and supporting health care workers (HCWs) are particularly at high risk of becoming infected while treating patients as many in-office procedures and surgeries are Aerosol Generating Medical Procedures (AGMP).\n\n Based on a review of the literature and various guidelines, recommendations are made to mitigate the risk to health care workers of becoming infected with SARS-CoV-2 while providing clinical care.\n\n\nRecommendations\nid='Par2'>During the COVID-19 pandemic all elective and non-time sensitive Otolaryngology procedures should be deferred to mitigate the risk of transmission of infection to HCWs.\n\n For non-AGMPs in all patients, even COVID-19 positive patients Level 1 PPE (surgical mask, gown, gloves and face shield or goggles) is sufficient.\n\n If local prevalence is favourable and patients are asymptomatic and test negative for SARS-CoV-2, Level 1 PPE can be used during short duration AGMPs, with limited risk of infected aerosol spread.\n\n For AGMPs in patients who test positive for SARS-CoV-2 a minimum of Level 2 PPE, with adequate protection of mucosal surfaces, is recommended (N95/FFP2 respirator, gown, double gloves, goggles or face shield and head cover).\n\n For long duration AGMPs that are deemed high-risk in COVID-19 positive patients, Level 3 PPE can provide a higher level of protection and be more comfortable during long duration surgeries if surgical hoods or PAPRs are used.\n\n It is recommended that these procedures are performed in negative pressure rooms, if available.\n\n It is essential to follow strict donning and doffing protocols to minimize the risk of contamination.\n\n\nConclusions\nid='Par3'>By following strict infection prevention recommendations, the risk of HCWs becoming infected with SARS-CoV-2 while treating patients can be minimized.\n\n As the COVID-19 pandemic evolves rapidly, these recommendations should serve as guidance and need to be interpreted based on local factors and availability of healthcare resources.\n\n\n","id":"PMC7269420","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"BioMed Central","authors":[{"firstname":"Marc J. W.","surname":"Lammers","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jane","surname":"Lea","email":"JLea@providencehealth.bc.ca","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Brian D.","surname":"Westerberg","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Brian D.","surname":"Westerberg","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1111/odi.13408","date":"2020-05-03","title":"Infection control in dental health care during and after the SARS?CoV?2 outbreak","abstract":"COVID?19 is an emerging infectious disease caused by the widespread transmission of the coronavirus SARS?CoV?2. Some of those infected become seriously ill.\n Others do not show any symptoms, but can still contribute to transmission of the virus.\n SARS?CoV?2 is excreted in the oral cavity and can be spread via aerosols.\n Aerosol generating procedures in dental health care can increase the risk of transmission of the virus.\n Due to the risk of infection of both dental healthcare workers and patients, additional infection control measures for all patients are strongly recommended when providing dental health care.\n Consideration should be given to which infection control measures are necessary when providing care in both the current situation and in the future.\n","id":"PMC7272817","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"John Wiley and Sons Inc.","authors":[{"firstname":"Catherine M. C.","surname":"Volgenant","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ilona F.","surname":"Persoon","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Ilona F.","surname":"Persoon","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Rolf A. G.","surname":"de Ruijter","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Rolf A. G.","surname":"de Ruijter","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"J. J. (Hans)","surname":"de Soet","email":"infectioncontrol@acta.nl","contributions":"1"}]}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Role of healthcare apparel and other healthcare textiles in the transmission of pathogens: a review of the literature","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Blood and body fluid exposures to skin and mucous membranes","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Epidemiology and prevention of blood and body fluid exposures among emergency department personnel","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Should HCWs be screened routinely for methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus? A review of the evidence","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Health-care workers: source, vector, or victim of MRSA?","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Spread of methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus in a hospital after exposure to a health care worker with chronic sinusitis","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"A cloud adult: the Staphylococcus aureus-virus interaction revisited","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Outbreak of staphylococcal infection in two hospital nurseries traced to a single nasal carrier","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Nosocomial transmission of a strain of Staphylococcus aureus causing toxic shock syndrome","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Outbreak of community-acquired methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus skin infections among health care workers in a cancer center","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Update: Human immunodeficiency virus infections in HCWs exposed to blood of infected patients","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The risk of occupational human immunodeficiency virus infection in HCWs: Italian multicenter study","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Transmission of hepatitis C via blood splash into conjunctiva","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"A prevalence study of methicillin resistant Staphylococcus aureus colonization in emergency department health care workers","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Staphylococcus aureus colonization among HCWs at a tertiary care hospital","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Prevalence of Staphylococcus aureus nasal colonization in emergency department personnel","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Prevalence of methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus nasal carriage in HCWs","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Bacterial contamination on touch surfaces in the public transport system and in public areas of a hospital in London","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Public transport as a reservoir of methicillin-resistant staphylococci","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Bloomfield SF, Exner M, Signorelli C, Nath KJ, Scott EA; International Scientific Forum on Home Hygiene. The infection risks associated with clothing and household linens in home and everyday life settings, and the role of laundry. Available at: http://www.ifh-homehygiene.org/IntegratedCRD.nsf/eb85eb9d8ecd365280257545005e8966/d0e3b0f361079f1780257865003d43b1?OpenDocument. Last accessed 19th March 2015.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Survival of enterococci and staphylococci on hospital fabrics and plastic","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Hospital privacy curtains are frequently and rapidly contaminated with potentially pathogenic bacteria","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Bacterial transfer to and from fabrics","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Dissemination of microorganisms by fabrics and leather","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Rotaviral RNA found in wastewaters from hospital laundry","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Rotaviral RNA found on various surfaces in a hospital laundry","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Nursing and physician attire as possible source of nosocomial infections","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Newly cleaned physician uniforms and infrequently washed white coats have similar rates of bacterial contamination after an 8-hour workday: a randomized control trial","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"A crossover trial of antimicrobial scrubs to reduce methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus burden on healthcare worker apparel","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Bacterial contamination of uniforms","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Bacterial contamination of health careworkers' whitecoats","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Associations between bacterial contamination of health care workers' hands and contamination of white coats and scrubs","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Bacterial contamination of nurses' uniforms: a study","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Detection of methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus and vancomycin-resistant enterococci on the gowns and gloves of HCWs","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Contamination of nurses' uniforms with Staphylococcus aureus","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Transmission of nosocomial pathogens by white coats: an in-vitro model","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Rogawski E. Transfer of multidrug-resistant organisms to HCWs' gloves and gowns after patient contact increases with environmental contamination. Fifth Decennial International Conference on Healthcare Associated Infections, 18th-22nd March 2010, Atlanta, GA, USA.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The role of clothing and drapes in the operating room","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Hospital gowns as a vehicle for bacterial dissemination in an intensive care unit","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Compliance with routine use of gowns by HCWs (HCWs) and non-HCW visitors on entry into the rooms of patients under contact precautions","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Contamination of protective clothing and nurses' uniforms in an isolation ward","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Microbial flora on doctors' white coats","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Bacterial flora on the white coats of medical students","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Healthcare personnel attire in non-operating room settings","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Frequent multidrug-resistant Acinetobacter baumannii contamination of gloves, gowns, and hands of HCWs","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Effect of clothing on dispersal of Staphylococcus aureus by males and females","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Methicillin resistant Staphylococcus aureus contamination of HCWs' uniforms in long-term care facilities","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The role played by contaminated surfaces in the transmission of nosocomial pathogens","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The survival and transfer of microbial contamination via cloths, hands and utensils","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Virus transfer from personal protective equipment to healthcare employees' skin and clothing","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Nosocomial transmission of salmonella gastroenteritis to laundry workers in a nursing home","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Pillows, an unexpected source of acinetobacter","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Carbapenem-resistant acinetobacter and role of curtains in an outbreak in intensive care units","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Duffy J. Zygomycosis outbreak associated with hospital linens. Fifth Decennial International Conference on Healthcare Associated Infections, 18th-22nd March 2010, Atlanta, GA, USA.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Transfer of multidrug-resistant bacteria to healthcare workers' gloves and gowns after patient contact increases with environmental contamination","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Importance of the environment in methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus acquisition: the case for hospital cleaning","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Gordonia bronchialis sternal wound infection in 3 patients following open heart surgery: intraoperative transmission from a healthcare worker","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The bacterial contamination of surgical scrubs","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Butterfield S. The white coat of the future. ACP Hospitalist, August 2011.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"A review of the evidence for suboptimal compliance of healthcare practitioners to standard/universal infection control precautions","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Use of personal protective equipment and operating room behaviors in four surgical subspecialties: personal protective equipment and behaviors in surgery","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Improving adherence to hand hygiene practice: a multidisciplinary approach","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Patient education model for increasing hand washing compliance","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Effectiveness of a hospital-wide programme to improve compliance with hand hygiene. Infection Control Programme","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Epidemiologic background of hand hygiene and evaluation of the most important agents for scrubs and rubs","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Hand disinfection: a comparison of various agents in laboratory and ward studies","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"A history of protective clothing","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Community-acquired methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus in children with no identified predisposing risk","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Increase in community-acquired methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus in children","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Emergence of community-associated methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus USA 300 genotype as a major cause of health care-associated blood stream infections","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Emergence of USA-300 MRSA in a tertiary medical centre: implications for epidemiological studies","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Invasive methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus infections in the United States","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"High diversity of Panton-Valentine leukocidin-positive, methicillin-susceptible isolates of Staphylococcus aureus and implications for the evolution of community-associated methicillin-resistant S. aureus","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"National prevalence of methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus in inpatients at United States health care facilities, 2006","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"A study quantifying the hand-to-face contact rate and its potential application to predicting respiratory tract infection","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Clinical glove use: healthcare workers' actions and perceptions","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Caring for HCWs: a global perspective","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Prevalence of Staphylococcus aureus colonization in orthopaedic surgeons and their patients","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Health care workers causing large nosocomial outbreaks: a systematic review","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Determining the hygiene of laundering industrial textiles in Slovenia, Norway and Denmark","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Implementing hygiene monitoring systems in hospital laundries in order to reduce microbial contamination of hospital textiles","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Novel hospital curtains with antimicrobial properties: a randomized, controlled trial","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"A randomized crossover trial to decrease bacterial contamination on hospital scrubs","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Pilot study on the microbial contamination of conventional vs. silver-impregnated uniforms worn by ambulance personnel during one week of emergency medical service","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1017/ice.2014.92","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Making the case for textiles with a dual mechanism of action","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Hardwick M, Walsh T, Cotton M. Fabric challenge assays: new standards for the evaluation of the performance of textiles treated with antimicrobial agents. In: Bernards M, editor. Pesticide formulation and delivery systems: innovating legacy products for new uses, 1st-3rd November 2011, Tampa, FL, USA. Available at: www.astm.org. Last accessed 15th February 2015.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Clinician perceptions of respiratory infection risk; a rationale for research into mask use in routine practice","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Development of framework for assessing influenza virus pandemic risk","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Standard precautions but no standard adherence","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Health care workers' perceptions predicts uptake of personal protective equipment","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus transmission among health care workers: implication for infection control","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Evaluation of respiratory protection programs and practices in California hospitals during the 2009-2010 H1N1 influenza pandemic","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Scope and extent of healthcare-associated Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus transmission during two contemporaneous outbreaks in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, 2017","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Applying psychological frameworks of behaviour change to improve healthcare worker hand hygiene: a systematic review","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The behaviour change wheel: a new method for characterising and designing behaviour change interventions","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"RNA virus reassortment: an evolutionary mechanism for host jumps and immune evasion","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"In-depth assessment of an outbreak of Nipah encephalitis with person-to-person transmission in Bangladesh: implications for prevention and control strategies","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Responding to global infectious disease outbreaks: lessons from SARS on the role of risk perception, communication and management","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"MERS-CoV outbreak following a single patient exposure in an emergency room in South Korea: an epidemiological outbreak study","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Incidence of influenza in healthy adults and healthcare workers: a systematic review and meta-analysis","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Annual burden of occupationally-acquired influenza infections in hospitals and emergency departments in the United States","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Productivity losses related to the common cold","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"More than a cold: hospital-acquired respiratory viral infections, sick leave policy, and a need for culture change","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Effects of upper respiratory tract illnesses on mood and performance over the working day","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Chasing seasonal influenza:the need for a universal influenza vaccine","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Estimation of sickness absenteeism among Italian healthcare workers during seasonal influenza epidemics","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Increases in absenteeism among health care workers in Hong Kong during influenza epidemics, 2004-2009","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Healthcare worker influenza immunization vaccinate or mask policy: strategies for cost effective implementation and subsequent reductions in staff absenteeism due to illness","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Does vaccinating ED health care workers against influenza reduce sickness absenteeism?","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Pandemic (H1N1) 2009 influenza in Australia: absenteeism and redeployment of emergency medicine and nursing staff","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Factors influencing emergency nurses' ethical problems during the outbreak of MERS-CoV","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Assessing workplace infectious illness management in Australian workplaces","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Reasons why physicians and advanced practice clinicians work while sick: a mixed-methods analysis","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Working with influenza-like illness: presenteeism among US health care personnel during the 2014-2015 influenza season","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The annual impact of seasonal influenza in the US: measuring disease burden and costs","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Disease burden of 2013-2014 seasonal influenza in adults in Korea","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Resource impact of managing suspected Middle East respiratory syndrome patients in a UK teaching hospital","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Behind the mask: determinants of nurse's adherence to facial protective equipment","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Risk perception and compliance with quarantine during the SARS outbreak","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Compliance with recommended protective actions during an H7N9 emergency: a risk perception perspective","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Barriers to the use of PPE to prevent pertussis exposures in a pediatric primary care network","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Are health care personnel trained in correct use of personal protective equipment?","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Healthcare workers' decision-making about transmission-based infection control precautions is improved by a guidance summary card","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Personal protective equipment processes and rationale for the Nebraska Biocontainment Unit during the 2014 activations for Ebola virus disease","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The individual, environmental, and organizational factors that influence nurses' use of facial protection to prevent occupational transmission of communicable respiratory illness in acute care hospitals","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Risk of self-contamination during doffing of personal protective equipment","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Human factors risk analyses of a doffing protocol for Ebola-level personal protective equipment: mapping errors to contamination","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Beyond hand hygiene: a qualitative study of the everyday work of preventing cross-contamination on hospital wards","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Prevalence of preventive behaviors and associated factors during early phase of the H1N1 influenza epidemic","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Behind barriers: patients' perceptions of source isolation for methicillin-resistant staphylococcus aureus (MRSA)","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Perceived barriers to adherence to tuberculosis infection control measures among health care workers in the Dominican Republic","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"&quot;The cookie monster muffler&quot;: perceptions and behaviours of hospital healthcare workers around the use of masks and respirators in the hospital setting","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Hospital unit safety climate: relationship with nurses' adherence to recommended use of facial protective equipment","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Nurses' attitudes towards enforced measures to increase influenza vaccination: a qualitative study","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Influenza vaccination of healthcare workers: critical analysis of the evidence for patient benefit underpinning policies of enforcement","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Domestic politics and the WHO's International Health Regulations: explaining the use of trade and travel barriers during disease outbreaks","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Pandemic (H1N1) Influenza 2009 and Australian emergency departments: implications for policy, practice and pandemic preparedness","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The practical experience of managing the H1N1 2009 influenza pandemic in Australian and New Zealand intensive care units","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]}]}]},{"doi":"10.1016/j.ajic.2020.03.018","date":"1970-01-01","title":"A qualitative study on the psychological experience of caregivers of COVID-19 patients","abstract":"Background\nThe coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) is spreading rapidly, bringing pressure and challenges to nursing staff.\n\n\nObjective\nTo explore the psychology of nurses caring for COVID-19 patients.\n\n\nMethods\nUsing a phenomenological approach, we enrolled 20 nurses who provided care for COVID-19 patients in the First Affiliated Hospital of Henan University of Science and Technology from January 20, to February 10, 2020. The interviews were conducted face-to-face or by telephone and were analysed by Colaizzi's 7-step method.\n\n\nResults\nThe psychological experience of nurses caring for COVID-19 patients can be summarized into 4 themes.\n\n First, negative emotions present in early stage consisting of fatigue, discomfort, and helplessness was caused by high-intensity work, fear and anxiety, and concern for patients and family members.\n\n Second, self-coping styles included psychological and life adjustment, altruistic acts, team support, and rational cognition.\n\n Third, we found growth under pressure, which included increased affection and gratefulness, development of professional responsibility, and self-reflection.\n\n Finally, we showed that positive emotions occurred simultaneously with negative emotions.\n\n\nConclusions\nDuring an epidemic outbreak, positive and negative emotions of the front-line nurses interweaved and coexisted.\n\n In the early stage, negative emotions were dominant and positive emotions appeared gradually.\n\n Self-coping styles and psychological growth played an important role in maintaining mental health of nurses.\n\n\n","id":"PMC7141468","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. on behalf of Association for Professionals in Infection Control and Epidemiology, Inc.","authors":[{"firstname":"Niuniu","surname":"Sun","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":" Luoqun","surname":"Wei","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":" Suling","surname":"Shi","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":" Dandan","surname":"Jiao","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":" Runluo","surname":"Song","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":" Lili","surname":"Ma","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":" Hongwei","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":" Chao","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":" Zhaoguo","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":" Yanli","surname":"You","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":" Shuhua","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":" Hongyun","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}],"Full Text":"A qualitative study on the psychological experience of caregivers of COVID-19 patients\nBackground\nThe coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) is spreading rapidly, bringing pressure and challenges to nursing staff.\nObjective\nTo explore the psychology of nurses caring for COVID-19 patients.\nMethods\nUsing a phenomenological approach, we enrolled 20 nurses who provided care for COVID-19 patients in the First Affiliated Hospital of Henan University of Science and Technology from January 20, to February 10, 2020. The interviews were conducted face-to-face or by telephone and were analysed by Colaizzi's 7-step method.\nResults\nThe psychological experience of nurses caring for COVID-19 patients can be summarized into 4 themes. First, negative emotions present in early stage consisting of fatigue, discomfort, and helplessness was caused by high-intensity work, fear and anxiety, and concern for patients and family members. Second, self-coping styles included psychological and life adjustment, altruistic acts, team support, and rational cognition. Third, we found growth under pressure, which included increased affection and gratefulness, development of professional responsibility, and self-reflection. Finally, we showed that positive emotions occurred simultaneously with negative emotions.\nConclusions\nDuring an epidemic outbreak, positive and negative emotions of the front-line nurses interweaved and coexisted. In the early stage, negative emotions were dominant and positive emotions appeared gradually. Self-coping styles and psychological growth played an important role in maintaining mental health of nurses.\nIntroduction\nThe severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) is a newly discovered ribonucleic acid coronavirus isolated and identified from patients with unexplained pneumonia in Wuhan, China in December 2019. Before it was named by the International Committee of Viral Classification on February 12, 2020, it was called 2019-nCoV. SARS-CoV-2 mainly causes respiratory and digestive tract symptoms, with symptoms ranging from mild self-limited disease to severe pneumonia, acute respiratory distress syndrome, septic shock, and even systemic multiple organ failure syndrome. The infection source of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) is mainly patients with SARS-CoV-2 infection. Asymptomatic infected patients may also become the source of infection, mainly via aerosols from the respiratory tract, but also through direct contact. Elderly people with underlying diseases are more likely to be infected with the virus and develop severe disease and children and infants are also at risk. At present, there are no specific drugs for this disease. The treatment and nursing mainly include antiviral and traditional Chinese medicine treatment, isolation, symptomatic support, and close monitoring of disease progression. \nSince the first case of unexplained pneumonia in Wuhan, 52 countries in the world have confirmed cases by 28 February according to WHO data, of which about 94% are in China. On that day in China, there were 37,414 active confirmed cases (including 7,664 severe cases) in 31 provinces, 39,002 recovered and discharged cases, 2,835 deaths, amounting to 79,251 confirmed cases as well as 1,418 suspected cases. A total of 658,587 close-proximity interactions were tracked, including 58,233 close-proximity interactions under medical observation.\nAlthough China experienced SARS in 2003 and H1N1 in 2009, the outbreak of COVID-19 as a new infectious disease severely tested the country's public health system. In this context, medical workers, as the main force in the battle against the epidemic, bear the monumental task. Unfortunately, many front-line personnel have sacrificed their own well-being and have been infected or died, which causes increasing psychological pressure. According to the Chinese Center for Disease Control and Prevention, by February 11, over 3,000 health care personnel in China were suspected to be infected with SARS-CoV-2. Among them, 1,716 were confirmed cases and 5 had died. Previous studies have shown that during sudden natural disasters and infectious diseases, nurses will sacrifice their own needs to actively participate in the antiepidemic work and make selfless contributions out of moral and professional responsibility. At the same time, nurses would be in a state of physical and mental stress and feel isolated and helpless in the face of health threats and pressure from the high-intensity work caused by such public health emergencies. Previous studies have shown that when nurses are in close contact with patients with emerging infectious diseases such as SARS, MERS-Cov,   Ebola, H1N1, they will suffer from loneliness, anxiety, fear, fatigue, sleep disorders, and other physical and mental health problems. Studies have shown that the incidence of depression, insomnia, and post-traumatic stress among nurses involved in the treatment of SARS patients was 38.5%, 37%, and 33%, respectively. In a study on the psychological status of Ebola patients' caregivers, 29% of respondents felt lonely and 45% received psychological counselling. On the contrary, some studies also demonstrate the positive experience and growth brought by the collective antiepidemic efforts.   \nDue to the sudden outbreak of the epidemic, nurses from the Department of Infectious Diseases had to enter the negative pressure ward to care for the patients after only undergoing a brief training on COVID-19. Nurses from other departments were required to go through 3 training stages before starting nursing duties for patients with COVID-19: prejob training, adaptive training by nursing other patients in the infection department, and negative pressure ward training. This process occupied about 1 week. Nurses who entered the negative pressure ward would work for 0.5-3 months before being transferred to other non-anti-epidemic positions. Because COVID-19 is a new disease and the medical system and culture of different countries varies, further research is needed on the psychological experience of frontline nurses fighting against COVID-19. Currently, published studies have highlighted the disease prevalence, clinical characteristics, diagnosis, and treatment. Some reports have paid attention to the severity of psychological problems in medical personnel and the urgency of providing psychological care. However, no qualitative studies have been published on the psychological experience of nurses.\nTherefore, our study aims to understand the subjective experience of nurses participating in nursing COVID-19 patients through semistructured interviews and to analyse the data using phenomenological methods, providing fundamental data for the psychological experience of nurses.\nMethods\nResearch design\nOur research used the Colaizzi's phenomenological method to qualitatively analyse the psychological experience of nurses caring for patients with COVID-19. Colaizzi's phenomenological method focuses on the experience and feelings of participants and finds shared patterns rather than individual characteristics in the research subjects. This scientific approach guarantees the authenticity of the collected experience of participants to adhere to scientific standards.\nStudy subjects\nBy using a purposeful sampling method, we selected 20 nurses caring for patients with COVID-19 in the First Affiliated Hospital of Henan University of Science and Technology from January 20, 2020 to February 10, 2020. The inclusion criteria included (1) nurses who entered the negative pressure ward and provided nursing care for confirmed COVID-19 patients and (2) volunteers who participated in the study. The exclusion criteria were inability to conduct 2 or more interviews during the study period. We determined the number of required respondents by interviewing nurses who met the inclusion criteria until the data were saturated and no new topics were generated.\nInterview outline\nWe determined the interview outline by consulting relevant literature, seeking experts' opinions, and selecting 2 nurses for preinterview. The main interview questions posed to the participants are the following: (1) What are the main psychological feelings of nursing care providers for COVID-19 patients? (2) What are your coping strategies? and (3) What are your insights in the face of the epidemic? In addition, we asked the following subquestions: (1) How did you feel when accepting the antiepidemic task? (2) How do you feel when you are working with COVID-19 patients? (3) What has changed in your life? (4) How do you cope with changes in your work and life? (5) What are your thoughts and feelings about this antiepidemic task?\nData collection\nWe communicated the purpose and significance of the study with the participant in advance and scheduled the interview time at their convenience. The interviewer possessed a Master of Science in Nursing with experience in qualitative interview and had worked as a head nurse in the SARS isolation ward and was experienced in epidemic prevention and control. With 20 years of clinical nursing, teaching, and scientific research experience and 5 years of psychological consultation experience, the researcher obtained a Second Level Psychological Consultant Certificate (the highest level in China) issued by the Ministry of Human Resources and Social Security of China. Therefore, the researcher was able to carry out this research independently.\nThe one-to-one interviews were conducted in a separate room in a quiet manner without interruptions. The interviews were recorded, which were kept strictly confidential. The interviews took 40-60 minutes per person. If the participant exhibited emotional problems during the interview, adequate psychological intervention was provided to prevent secondary psychological harm. The study subjects were allowed to withdraw consent at any time. The researchers remained neutral in collecting the data and established good relationships with the participants. We used techniques such as unconditional acceptance, active listening, and clarification to promote the authenticity of the data and to avoid bias. For each participant, at least 1-2 face-to-face interviews and 1-2 telephone interviews were arranged as needed to ensure data collection at multiple time points.\nData analysis\nWithin 24 hours of each interview, the recording was transcribed and analysed by Colaizzi's phenomenological analysis method. Two researchers independently reviewed the interview materials, summarized and extracted meaningful statements, and formulated the themes present. Conflicting opinions on the contents of a theme were discussed and resolved by a research group composed of a master of nursing, a doctor of nursing, and 2 chief nurses.\nEthical review\nThis study was reviewed and approved by the Ethics Committee of the First Affiliated Hospital of Henan University of Science and Technology (ethics code: 2020-03-B001). All participants signed informed consent. The authors promise that there will be no academic misconduct such as plagiarism, data fabrication, falsification, and repeated publication.\nResults\nBaseline characteristics of participants (n = 20)\nTable 1	 	\nCharacteristics		N (%) or mean +- SD	Median (range)	 	Gender	Male	3 (15%)		 		Female	17 (75%)		 	Age		30.60 +- 6.12	29 (25-49)	 	Nationality	Han Chinese	20 (100%)		 	Working Experience		5.85 +- 6.43	3.5 (1-28)	 	Education	Undergraduate	20 (100%)		 	Duty	Head nurse	3 (15%)		 		General nurse	17 (75%)		 	Marriage and offspring	Married with children	7 (35%)		 		Married without children	5 (25%)		 		Unmarried without children	8 (40%)		 	Number of interviews		3.05 +- 0.89	3 (2-5)	 	\nIn our study, we enrolled 3 males and 17 females between 25 and 49 with an average age of 30.60 +- 6.12. The working experience ranged from 1 to 28 years with an average of 5.85 +- 6.43. All nurses possessed a bachelor's degree. Seven nurses were married with children, 5 were married without children, and 8 were unmarried without children. There were 17 general nurses and 3 head nurses. Table 1 outlines the baseline characteristics of the participants.\nThemes identified through interviews with nursing staff\nTable 2	 	\nTheme	Subtheme	Quotations	 	I. Significant amount of negative emotions in the early stage	i. Fatigue, discomfort, and helplessness caused by high-intensity work and self-protection	&quot;After working 12-16 hours every day, I feel very tired and can even sleep when standing with pain all over my body.&quot;&quot;After putting on protective clothing, nursing duties are awkward to carry out. Protective clothing needs to be worn for 8 hours or more without drinking water and eating food and urinating was done with adult diapers.&quot;&quot;When wearing protective clothing for a long time, I have headaches, chest tightness, and palpitations. The surgical mask strap pinches my ears. When I take off my protective clothing, my whole body is sweaty and I feel like I'm going to collapse.&quot;&quot;...There are a lot of patients. Our job is not only to care for them, but also to participate in training, information reporting, disinfection, and isolation. I feel I don't know where to start and I'm under a lot of pressure. But I don't have time to go to psychological counselling, I even don't have time to sleep...&quot;	 		ii. Fear of viral infections and concern for patients	&quot;Although I volunteered to work in the Department of Infectious Diseases, I still feel very scared. After all, it is a new infectious disease and there are no specific drugs at present. I was scared to see reports of the sacrifice of medical staff in other cities.&quot;&quot;...The moment I walked through the door of the Department of Infectious Diseases, I felt very scared. I felt much better after I got used to it. And I felt scared when I pushed the door of the negative pressure room for the first time, but I was fine the second time.&quot;&quot;After all, it is a new disease and the patient's condition is unpredictable. I am always worried about what to do if the patient's condition deteriorates in the next second.&quot;&quot;Although the technology and equipment are very good, I am still very worried. If the patient's condition changes and rescue is needed, or the coordination is lacking in various aspects, or there is insufficient manpower, what should we do?&quot;&quot;The patient is suffering after being infected and isolated in a single room. Their psychological condition is very worrying.&quot;	 		iii. Anxiety caused by lack of knowledge, environmental changes, and presence of strangers	&quot;Although I have worked in the Department of Infectious Diseases, a lot of knowledge still needs to be learned because this is a new infectious disease. We also need to train new colleagues. I feel anxious.&quot;&quot;When I first came here, I felt that there were a lot of hallways in the Department of Infectious Diseases. The environment was unfamiliar and my colleagues were also unfamiliar. The operating procedures and disease care routines were different from previous work. I felt very anxious.&quot;	 		iv. Bidirectional concerns with their own family members	&quot;I am worried that I will infect my children&quot;&quot;My partner is very worried that I will be infected.&quot;&quot;I am the only child and my mother cries every day and fears that I will be infected, and I worry more about them...&quot;&quot;I can't tell my parents about my work, lest they worry about me.&quot;&quot;I agreed with my child to talk on the phone twice a day, but every time I get off work, it's already midnight.&quot;&quot;I have set aside life and death, but I am worried about the children and the elderly in the family... (crying)&quot;	 	II. Coping and self-care styles	i. Active or passive psychological adjustment	&quot;I've often thought how much better it would be if the epidemic disappeared when I wake up...&quot;&quot;My method is not to think about stress, I shield it out of my life.&quot;&quot;...I forget everything when I am busy...&quot;&quot;It makes me feel good to think that I'm treating people every day.&quot;&quot;When using diapers, I tell myself you're young enough to become a baby (laughs).&quot;&quot;I write a diary and sometimes write letters.&quot;&quot;The progressive breathing relaxation method recommended by my colleague is good, I often use it.&quot;&quot;When I rest, I watch comedy, listen to meditation music, or practice yoga.&quot;&quot;I can't help crying when I'm under too much pressure and I feel relaxed after crying.&quot;&quot;I feel good using mindfulness-based stress reduction.&quot;	 		ii. Life adjustment	&quot;I feel sleep is the best stress relief, I just want to sleep.&quot;&quot;I think eating and drinking will increase my resistance. I don't lose weight now; I eat a lot.&quot;&quot;I am exercising less than before because the heavy workload is also exercise and the right amount is the best.&quot;	 		iii. Taking the initiative to be altruistic and seeking team support by &quot;huddling together for warmth&quot;	&quot;Everyone is very welcoming and friendly. Experienced colleagues will take the initiative to teach me. I also take the initiative to teach new colleagues.&quot;&quot;Everyone is willing to do more work so colleagues can rest more. Colleagues are particularly united.&quot;&quot;If someone is uncomfortable, everyone will take care of him and work for him.&quot;&quot;We encourage each other. It doesn't feel like I'm fighting alone, I'm not afraid.&quot;	 		iv. Adjusting cognition to face the situation rationally	&quot;Through data analysis, compared with the SARS epidemic, this epidemic spread quickly. But the virus is weak, the mortality rate is low, and young people without underlying diseases do not have to worry too much even if they are infected.&quot;&quot;In fact, the chance of medical staff infection is very low and the protection of negative pressure wards is better than other departments.&quot;&quot;My attitude towards the epidemic is to neither loosen prevention and control nor be overly nervous.&quot;&quot;The medical staff in Wuhan is really tough and some have sacrificed their own life. Compared with them, we feel that we are lucky so my mental state has improved.&quot;	 	III. Growth under pressure	i. Increased affection and grateful sentiments	&quot;I really appreciate the people who care for and support me and I cherish this emotion.&quot;&quot;This experience made me feel that life is precious and family is important...&quot;&quot;To live well every day is to love my family&quot;&quot;After work I find the sky is blue and everything is beautiful.&quot;&quot;...I feel this is a special work experience. It is a gift. I cherish it.&quot;	 		ii. Professional responsibility and identity	&quot;Although I was scared in the face of the epidemic, I haven't flinched. I don't have grand ideas. I think this is responsibility.&quot;&quot;I used to work to earn a salary, but now it feels like a responsibility.&quot;&quot;Saving lives is the responsibility of nurses and I like this profession more.&quot;&quot;Maybe there was a discrimination against nurses in the society but now I am proud of my choice.&quot;	 		iii. Self-reflection	&quot;Although I am very tired, I find that I have survived and I have done a good job. I can't believe it.&quot;&quot;I never thought I could be so strong.&quot;&quot;...I'm not even afraid of death, what else could I be afraid of?&quot;&quot;It feels like there's nothing I can't overcome (laughs).&quot;	 	IV. Positive emotions occurred simultaneously or progressively with negative emotions	i. Confidence in the government, the medical environment and self-prevention abilityii. Calmness and relaxation at work and with patientsiii. Happiness from multiple social support sources	&quot;I feel that the government has strong prevention and control measures and the epidemic will be controlled very soon. But after all, we have a large population and it is a process.&quot;&quot;Equipment in the Department of Infectious Diseases is relatively advanced. We also use robotic aids and the patient's health is guaranteed.&quot;&quot;As long as we have 2-way protection and disinfection and isolation steps as required, there is no problem.&quot;&quot;I volunteered to sign up and I have no psychological burden when signing up.&quot;&quot;I felt quite calm when notified to take part in the fight against the epidemic and did not resist or want to resign.&quot;&quot;My mood is much better after starting pre-job training.&quot;&quot;After entering the negative pressure ward, I saw that both the patient and the doctor were protected. So, I felt safe and relieved.&quot;&quot;Every time I take care of the patients, they will take the initiative to put on a mask. I feel particularly safe in my heart. After treatment, they will keep saying 'thank you' and it feels good.&quot;&quot;Patients are very cooperative with our work. Although some patients have emotions due to illness, they show great respect to us.&quot;&quot;My family calls or sends WeChat greetings every day, and I feel very happy.&quot;&quot;The hospital has an extra bonus for us and we have priority in promotion. The union also gave us gifts and expresses sympathy to us.&quot;&quot;Many colleagues called me to encourage me and I felt that there were many people who cared about me.&quot;&quot;Online reviews say we are heroes...&quot;&quot;A lot of companies donated money and supplies to support our fight against the epidemic and I was very moved!&quot;r&quot;[institution] also actively paid for our antiepidemic health insurance; it feels like everyone is supporting us.&quot;	 	\nWe explored the psychological experience of caregivers of patients with COVID-19 using phenomenological methods. We found 4 themes that are summarized below. Exemplar quotes for each theme are displayed in Table 2 .\nTheme 1: Significant amount of negative emotions in the early stage\nAll study subjects experienced a significant amount of negative emotions in the first week, especially in the period from the first pre-job training to the first time they entered the negative pressure ward.\nAs the number of patients continued to rise, the workload of all nurses (n = 20) increased proportionally with 1.5-2 times normal work hours and workloads. Nurses were required to conserve protective clothing by reducing the number of times they wear it since protective equipment was in short supply, resulting in fatigue and discomfort. Failing to meet physical and psychological needs brought a sense of helplessness.\nAll participants (n = 20) expressed their fears, which peaked when they entered the negative pressure ward for the first time, which then gradually declined. Similarly, outsourced support nurses (n = 12) also experienced a strong sense of fear when they first entered the Department of Infectious Diseases, but gradually eased as their work adjusted. Most nurses (n = 11) expressed concerns about patients in an isolated environment with relatively few caregivers and many patients. They were mainly concerned about the unknown conditions of the patients, severe emergencies, and the patients' psychological state.\nAs with any emerging infectious disease, work processes and nursing routines need to be explored while working. Most of the participants (n = 15) felt different levels of anxiety. Under the challenges of changes in working environment and team members, 50% of nurses said they felt anxious.\nMost nurses in this study were between 25 and 40 years old. Some came from a single-child family and have elderly and children in their family. All nurses expressed concern about the impact of the outbreak on the health of their families. They also said that their families were also worried about their health. Those who did not live with their parents (n = 9) chose to hide the fact that they work in isolation ward from their parents. After separation from their families, they felt helpless and guilty. The nurses (n = 4) with the elderly and children at home were particularly worried of their families.\nTheme 2: Coping and self-care styles\nAll nurses (n = 20) activated psychological defence mechanisms, such as speculation, isolation, depression, distraction, self-consciousness, humour, rationalization, etc. Nurses used existing knowledge and new knowledge of psychological decompression communicated by colleagues or the internet to adjust themselves and actively or passively used psychological techniques, such as writing diary and letters, breathing relaxation, mindfulness, music meditation, and emotional expression and venting.\nMost nurses (n = 14) chose to adjust their sleep when stressed by work. Some nurses will increase their food intake and some will exercise regularly and maintain physical strength to ensure normal work ability.\nDuring times of stress, nurses (n = 13) cared and helped each other and showed support for stress relief. Most nurses said that they felt the collective power and the team cohesion was stronger.\nSome nurses (n = 9) took the initiative to process information and use medical knowledge for analysis. Their attitudes were calm and rational. Nurses also took the initiative to compare situations, find favourable information, and encourage themselves.\nTheme 3: Growth under pressure\nAll participants (n = 20) mentioned their gratitude for the support from colleagues, relatives, friends, and all sectors of society. They also realised the importance of health and family. Most nurses (n = 15) said that they would work and live with a state of appreciation and gratitude in the future.\nMore than 70% of the participants mentioned that professional responsibility prompted them to participate in the mission to contain the epidemic. Most nurses (n = 9) reviewed the value of the nursing profession and identified more with their chosen profession.\nHalf of the nurses (n = 10) conveyed that although the epidemic prevention work was hard, they started to self-reflect. For example, they strengthened their will, discovered their potential, and increased their courage to face life.\nTheme 4: Positive emotions occurred simultaneously or progressively with negative emotions\nAlthough most nurses had negative emotions such as fear, anxiety, and worry, positive emotions appear synchronously or progressively. After a week, positive emotions prevailed in 70% of the nurses.\nWhile fear and anxiety were brought on by the epidemic, nurses also evaluated the epidemic prevention and control progress and felt confidence in the medical capability of the government and its subunits. At the same time, they felt confidence in self-prevention and control ability after training and practice. All nurses actively accepted antiepidemic tasks and most (n = 11) volunteered. Most nurses (n = 16) showed calmness when receiving these tasks. Although, as mentioned earlier, there were negative emotions such as fear and anxiety in the early stages, these subsided after the pre-job training and environmental adaptation. Most nurses (n = 14) said that after entering the negative pressure ward to care for patients, they felt calm and relaxed.\nDespite difficult conditions and challenges in the fight against the disease, 60% of the nurses reported feeling happy. Firstly, the nurses felt the patient's goodwill, respect, active cooperation, and gratitude. Secondly, family and team support brought happiness. Contact with family was a key factor in our study. In addition, the hospital has a reward and welfare system in place to support and motivate nurses. The encouragement of colleagues also brought happiness to nurses. Other forms of social support were important to the nurses' feeling of appreciation.\nDiscussion\nThis study explored the psychological experience of caregivers of patients with COVID-19 using phenomenological methods and we summarised our findings into 4 themes: significant amounts of negative emotions at an early stage, self-coping styles, growth under stress, and positive emotions that occur simultaneously or progressively with negative emotions.\nThe nurses caring for COVID-19 patients felt extreme physical fatigue and discomfort caused by the outbreak, intense work, large number of patients, and lack of protective materials, which was consistent with the studies on the outbreak of MERS-CoV   and Ebola. In this study, nurses' concerns about family members were consistent with the study of Lee et al, especially those with elderly and children in the family. The physical exhaustion, psychological helplessness, health threat, lack of knowledge, and interpersonal unfamiliarity under the threat of epidemic disease led to a large number of negative emotions such as fear, anxiety, and helplessness, which have been reported by several studies.     We showed that nurses' negative emotions are more pronounced in the first week when entering pre-job training and negative pressure ward for the first time. Therefore, early psychological intervention is particularly important to nurses in an epidemic. It is best to conduct stress assessment and screening of nurses immediately after receiving the epidemic prevention tasks and to provide professional, flexible, and continuous psychological intervention   to promote emotional release and improve nurses' mental health. At the same time, it is important to establish early support systems, such as adequate supplies of protective materials, reasonable allocation of human resources, elderly and infant care services for nurses' families, pre-job training, and interpersonal interaction among nurses to facilitate nurses' adaptation to the antiepidemic tasks.\nIt is known that coping style, cognitive evaluation, and social support are all mediators of stress. Studies have shown that psychological adaptation and social support play an intermediary role in psychological rehabilitation under outbreak stress. Pressure of the epidemic may prompt nurses to use their medical and psychological knowledge to actively or passively make psychological adjustments. In our study, nurses adopted avoidance, isolation, speculation, humour, self-consciousness, and other psychological defences to psychologically adjust to the situation. It has been demonstrated that all coping measures under the epidemic disaster can alleviate stress and promote mental health. Participants adopted breathing relaxation, music, meditation, mindfulness, and other ways to reduce stress, which was consistent with the study of nurses in the SARS wards that adopted multiple ways to deal with stress.   In addition, our results showed active altruism and greater team solidarity, reflecting the study of Kim et al. and Shih et al.. Generally, nurses can adjust their cognitive rationality to adapt to the epidemic, which may also be related to health care professionals' rich medical knowledge and more rational and positive attitude. According to American psychologist Richard Lazarus' stress and coping model, whether the stressors are effective or not depends mainly on the process of cognitive evaluation and coping. When stressed, nurses constantly adjust cognitive evaluation through professional knowledge to promote self-psychological balance, take the initiative to be altruistic, seek team support, take the initiative to reduce stress, adjust sleep, diet and exercise to adapt to internal and external environment changes, and prevent injuries caused by stress, which has positive significance for mental health. \nMany studies have shown that epidemic outbreaks can cause psychological trauma for caregivers.     In contrast, the results of our study demonstrate that most nurses grew psychologically under pressure. Nurses partook in self-reflection of their own values and found positive forces such as expressing more appreciation for health and family and gratitude for social support, which was consistent with study of Shih et al. The sense of responsibility brought by professional ethics in an epidemic   encouraged nurses to actively participate in antiepidemic tasks and boosted their professional identity and pride, in line with previous reports. Therefore, actively guiding and inspiring nurses to realise their own psychological growth during an epidemic may play a positive role in psychological adjustment.\nOur finding of the existence of positive emotions in our nurses such as confidence, calmness, relaxation, and happiness, which simultaneously or gradually appeared with negative emotions, was in contrast to the results several studies that describe only the presence of a large amount of negative emotions during outbreak stress.   However, other studies report similar findings.     In the case of an outbreak, confidence in safety, early training, and confidence in professional skills are all factors that promote medical staff's willingness to actively participate in antiepidemic work. Physical and mental rewards to nurses from work units are also important supporting factors. Our participants generally believed that positive emotions were related to the multi-dimensional support of patients, family members, team members, government, social groups etc. Therefore, social support is critical for nurses in the fight against epidemics.     The calmness and ease of most nurses in this study after starting the antiepidemic tasks is rarely mentioned in other studies and may be related to nurses' gradual adaptation, acceptance, positive response, and personal growth.   Studies have shown that positive emotions play an important role in the recovery and adjustment of psychological trauma. Optimism has a protective effect on psychological trauma under disasters and can promote the psychological rehabilitation of post-traumatic stress disorder. - Therefore, in the process of psychological intervention of nurses in an epidemic, strengthening multi-dimensional social support, adjusting cognitive evaluation, guiding positive coping styles, and stimulating positive emotions are crucial to promote the psychological health of nurses.\nStrengths\nMost existing qualitative studies are retrospective studies. In contrast, this study established a good relationship of consultation and visit with the participants in an early stage when the participants just accepted the antiepidemic tasks. We collected the psychological experience data of the participants over time through multiple interviews. This led to a deep understanding of their work experience, resulting in comprehensive and authentic data. Diverging from the results of many studies on the experience of negative emotions during outbreak stress, we found that positive emotions coexist with negative emotions, as well as psychological adjustment and growth under pressure, and preliminarily discussed its impact on nurses' mental health.\nLimitation\nDue to the characteristics of qualitative research, the sample size of this study was limited. Firstly, most of the participants were nurses, including 3 nursing managers. The experiences of other health care workers and administrators besides nurses need to be further explored. Secondly, due to the nature of outbreak prevention and control, we were unable to conduct focus group interviews and did not collect data from multiple centres in order to avoid potential cross-infection. In addition, this study was a short-term study. Long-term experience of the research subjects would be a valuable avenue to explore in the future.\nConclusions\nThis study provided a comprehensive and in-depth understanding of the psychological experience of caregivers of patients with COVID-19 through a phenomenological approach. We found that during the epidemic, positive and negative emotions of frontline nurses against the epidemic interweave and coexist. In the early days, negative emotions were dominant and positive emotions appeared simultaneously or gradually. Self-coping style and psychological growth are important for nurses to maintain mental health. This study provided fundamental data for further psychological intervention.\nReferences\nA novel coronavirus from patients with pneumonia in China, 2019\nClinical features of patients infected with 2019 novel coronavirus in Wuhan, China\nInterpretation of pneumonia diagnosis and treatment scheme for novel coronavirus infection (trial version 6) [EB/OL].(2020). Available at:http://www.nhc.gov.cn/xcs/zhengcwj/202002/8334a8326dd94d329df351d7da8aefc2.shtml. Accessed February 2, 2020\nWHO Novel Coronavirus(2019-nCoV) Situation Report -39[EB/OL]. (2020). Available at:https://www.who.int/docs/default-source/coronaviruse/situation-reports/20200228-sitrep-39-covid-19.pdf?sfvrsn=aa1b80a7_2. Accessed February 29, 2020\nOffice of Health Emergency, National Health Commission. Update on pneumonia of new coronavirus infection as of 24:00 on February 28[EB/OL]. (2020). Available at:http://www.nhc.gov.cn/xcs/yqfkdt/202002/4ef8b5221b4d4740bda3145ac37e68ed.shtml. Accessed February 29, 2020\nChina Disease Control Report: more than 3,000 medical staff infected with new crown virus [EB / OL]. (2020). Available at: Http://hb.sina.com.cn/news/n/2020-02-18/detail-iimxyqvz3722095.shtml. Accessed February 18, 2020\nEthical and legal challenges associated with disaster nursing\nNurses' beliefs about public health emergencies: fear of abandonment\nSARS: caring for patients in Hong Kong\nNurses' experiences of care for patients with Middle East respiratory syndrome-coronavirus in South Korea\nHealthcare worker semotions, perceived stressors and coping strategies during MERS-CoV outbreak\nSources and symptoms of stress among nurses in the first Chinese anti-Ebola medical team during the Sierra Leone aid mission: a qualitative study\nNew Zealand nurses perceptions of caringfor patients with influenza A (H1N1)\nPrevalence of psychiatric morbidity and psychological adaptation of the nurses in a structured SARS caring unit during outbreak: a prospective and periodic assessment study in Taiwan\nThe psychosocial challenges of caring for patients with Ebola virus disease\nInstructive messages from Chinese nurses'stories of caring for SARS patients\nThe continuing 2019-nCoV epidemic threat of novel coronaviruses to global health:the latest 2019 novel coronavirus outbreak in Wuhan, China\nThe mental health of medical workers in Wuhan, China dealing with the 2019 novel coronavirus\nTimely mental health care for the 2019 novel coronavirus outbreak is urgently needed\nWorking experiences of nurses during the Middle East respiratory syndrome outbreak\nFacing SARS: psychological impacts on SARS team nurses and psychiatric services in a Taiwan general hospital\nNational Health Commission of the People's Republic of China. The guideline of psychological crisis intervention for 2019-nCoV pneumonia. Available at: http://www.nhc.gov.cn/jkj/s3577/202001/6adc08b966594253b2b791be5c3b9467.shtml. Accessed January 27, 2020.\nSocial support and psychological adjustment to SARS: the mediating role of self-care self-efficacy\nRelations of SARS-related stressors and coping to Chinese college students' psychological adjustment during the 2003 Beijing SARS epidemic\nThe psychological impact of severe acute respiratory syndrome outbreak on healthcare workers in emergency departments and how they cope\nThe impact of the 9-21 earthquake experiences of Taiwanese nurses as rescuers\nKnowledge, attitude and anxiety towards pandemic flu a potential bio weapon among health professionals in Indore City\nHealthcare workers'willingness to work during an influenza pandemic: a systematic review and meta-analysis\nEffects of optimism on recovery and mental health after a tornado outbreak\nConflicts of interest: None to report.\n","References depth 1":[{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"A novel coronavirus from patients with pneumonia in China, 2019","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[{"doi":"10.1016/S0140-6736(20)30183-5","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Clinical features of patients infected with 2019 novel coronavirus in Wuhan, China","abstract":"Background\nA recent cluster of pneumonia cases in Wuhan, China, was caused by a novel betacoronavirus, the 2019 novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV).\n\n We report the epidemiological, clinical, laboratory, and radiological characteristics and treatment and clinical outcomes of these patients.\n\n\nMethods\nAll patients with suspected 2019-nCoV were admitted to a designated hospital in Wuhan.\n\n We prospectively collected and analysed data on patients with laboratory-confirmed 2019-nCoV infection by real-time RT-PCR and next-generation sequencing.\n\n Data were obtained with standardised data collection forms shared by WHO and the International Severe Acute Respiratory and Emerging Infection Consortium from electronic medical records.\n\n Researchers also directly communicated with patients or their families to ascertain epidemiological and symptom data.\n\n Outcomes were also compared between patients who had been admitted to the intensive care unit (ICU) and those who had not.\n\n\nFindings\nBy Jan 2, 2020, 41 admitted hospital patients had been identified as having laboratory-confirmed 2019-nCoV infection.\n\n Most of the infected patients were men (30 [73%] of 41); less than half had underlying diseases (13 [32%]), including diabetes (eight [20%]), hypertension (six [15%]), and cardiovascular disease (six [15%]).\n\n Median age was 49·0 years (IQR 41·0–58·0).\n\n 27 (66%) of 41 patients had been exposed to Huanan seafood market.\n\n One family cluster was found.\n\n Common symptoms at onset of illness were fever (40 [98%] of 41 patients), cough (31 [76%]), and myalgia or fatigue (18 [44%]); less common symptoms were sputum production (11 [28%] of 39), headache (three [8%] of 38), haemoptysis (two [5%] of 39), and diarrhoea (one [3%] of 38).\n\n Dyspnoea developed in 22 (55%) of 40 patients (median time from illness onset to dyspnoea 8·0 days [IQR 5·0–13·0]).\n\n 26 (63%) of 41 patients had lymphopenia.\n\n All 41 patients had pneumonia with abnormal findings on chest CT.\n\n Complications included acute respiratory distress syndrome (12 [29%]), RNAaemia (six [15%]), acute cardiac injury (five [12%]) and secondary infection (four [10%]).\n\n 13 (32%) patients were admitted to an ICU and six (15%) died.\n\n Compared with non-ICU patients, ICU patients had higher plasma levels of IL2, IL7, IL10, GSCF, IP10, MCP1, MIP1A, and TNF?.\n\n\nInterpretation\nThe 2019-nCoV infection caused clusters of severe respiratory illness similar to severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus and was associated with ICU admission and high mortality.\n\n Major gaps in our knowledge of the origin, epidemiology, duration of human transmission, and clinical spectrum of disease need fulfilment by future studies.\n\n\nFunding\nMinistry of Science and Technology, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences, National Natural Science Foundation of China, and Beijing Municipal Science and Technology Commission.\n\n\n","id":"PMC7159299","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Elsevier Ltd.","authors":[{"firstname":"Chaolin","surname":"Huang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yeming","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xingwang","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Lili","surname":"Ren","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jianping","surname":"Zhao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yi","surname":"Hu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Li","surname":"Zhang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Guohui","surname":"Fan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jiuyang","surname":"Xu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xiaoying","surname":"Gu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zhenshun","surname":"Cheng","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ting","surname":"Yu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jiaan","surname":"Xia","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yuan","surname":"Wei","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Wenjuan","surname":"Wu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xuelei","surname":"Xie","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Wen","surname":"Yin","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hui","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Min","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yan","surname":"Xiao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hong","surname":"Gao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Li","surname":"Guo","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jungang","surname":"Xie","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Guangfa","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Rongmeng","surname":"Jiang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zhancheng","surname":"Gao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Qi","surname":"Jin","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jianwei","surname":"Wang","email":"wangjw28@163.com","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Bin","surname":"Cao","email":"caobin_ben@163.com","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1016/S0140-6736(20)30154-9","date":"1970-01-01","title":"A familial cluster of pneumonia associated with the 2019 novel coronavirus indicating person-to-person transmission: a study of a family cluster","abstract":"Background\nAn ongoing outbreak of pneumonia associated with a novel coronavirus was reported in Wuhan city, Hubei province, China.\n\n Affected patients were geographically linked with a local wet market as a potential source.\n\n No data on person-to-person or nosocomial transmission have been published to date.\n\n\nMethods\nIn this study, we report the epidemiological, clinical, laboratory, radiological, and microbiological findings of five patients in a family cluster who presented with unexplained pneumonia after returning to Shenzhen, Guangdong province, China, after a visit to Wuhan, and an additional family member who did not travel to Wuhan.\n\n Phylogenetic analysis of genetic sequences from these patients were done.\n\n\nFindings\nFrom Jan 10, 2020, we enrolled a family of six patients who travelled to Wuhan from Shenzhen between Dec 29, 2019 and Jan 4, 2020. Of six family members who travelled to Wuhan, five were identified as infected with the novel coronavirus.\n\n Additionally, one family member, who did not travel to Wuhan, became infected with the virus after several days of contact with four of the family members.\n\n None of the family members had contacts with Wuhan markets or animals, although two had visited a Wuhan hospital.\n\n Five family members (aged 36–66 years) presented with fever, upper or lower respiratory tract symptoms, or diarrhoea, or a combination of these 3–6 days after exposure.\n\n They presented to our hospital (The University of Hong Kong-Shenzhen Hospital, Shenzhen) 6–10 days after symptom onset.\n\n They and one asymptomatic child (aged 10 years) had radiological ground-glass lung opacities.\n\n Older patients (aged &gt;60 years) had more systemic symptoms, extensive radiological ground-glass lung changes, lymphopenia, thrombocytopenia, and increased C-reactive protein and lactate dehydrogenase levels.\n\n The nasopharyngeal or throat swabs of these six patients were negative for known respiratory microbes by point-of-care multiplex RT-PCR, but five patients (four adults and the child) were RT-PCR positive for genes encoding the internal RNA-dependent RNA polymerase and surface Spike protein of this novel coronavirus, which were confirmed by Sanger sequencing.\n\n Phylogenetic analysis of these five patients' RT-PCR amplicons and two full genomes by next-generation sequencing showed that this is a novel coronavirus, which is closest to the bat severe acute respiatory syndrome (SARS)-related coronaviruses found in Chinese horseshoe bats.\n\n\nInterpretation\nOur findings are consistent with person-to-person transmission of this novel coronavirus in hospital and family settings, and the reports of infected travellers in other geographical regions.\n\n\nFunding\nThe Shaw Foundation Hong Kong, Michael Seak-Kan Tong, Respiratory Viral Research Foundation Limited, Hui Ming, Hui Hoy and Chow Sin Lan Charity Fund Limited, Marina Man-Wai Lee, the Hong Kong Hainan Commercial Association South China Microbiology Research Fund, Sanming Project of Medicine (Shenzhen), and High Level-Hospital Program (Guangdong Health Commission).\n\n\n","id":"PMC7159286","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Elsevier Ltd.","authors":[{"firstname":"Jasper Fuk-Woo","surname":"Chan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Shuofeng","surname":"Yuan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Kin-Hang","surname":"Kok","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Kelvin Kai-Wang","surname":"To","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hin","surname":"Chu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jin","surname":"Yang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Fanfan","surname":"Xing","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jieling","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Cyril Chik-Yan","surname":"Yip","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Rosana Wing-Shan","surname":"Poon","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hoi-Wah","surname":"Tsoi","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Simon Kam-Fai","surname":"Lo","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Kwok-Hung","surname":"Chan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Vincent Kwok-Man","surname":"Poon","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Wan-Mui","surname":"Chan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jonathan Daniel","surname":"Ip","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jian-Piao","surname":"Cai","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Vincent Chi-Chung","surname":"Cheng","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Honglin","surname":"Chen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Christopher Kim-Ming","surname":"Hui","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Kwok-Yung","surname":"Yuen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1016/S0140-6736(20)30211-7","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Epidemiological and clinical characteristics of 99 cases of 2019 novel coronavirus pneumonia in Wuhan, China: a descriptive study","abstract":"Background\nIn December, 2019, a pneumonia associated with the 2019 novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV) emerged in Wuhan, China.\n\n We aimed to further clarify the epidemiological and clinical characteristics of 2019-nCoV pneumonia.\n\n\nMethods\nIn this retrospective, single-centre study, we included all confirmed cases of 2019-nCoV in Wuhan Jinyintan Hospital from Jan 1 to Jan 20, 2020. Cases were confirmed by real-time RT-PCR and were analysed for epidemiological, demographic, clinical, and radiological features and laboratory data.\n\n Outcomes were followed up until Jan 25, 2020.\nFindings\nOf the 99 patients with 2019-nCoV pneumonia, 49 (49%) had a history of exposure to the Huanan seafood market.\n\n The average age of the patients was 55·5 years (SD 13·1), including 67 men and 32 women.\n\n 2019-nCoV was detected in all patients by real-time RT-PCR.\n\n 50 (51%) patients had chronic diseases.\n\n Patients had clinical manifestations of fever (82 [83%] patients), cough (81 [82%] patients), shortness of breath (31 [31%] patients), muscle ache (11 [11%] patients), confusion (nine [9%] patients), headache (eight [8%] patients), sore throat (five [5%] patients), rhinorrhoea (four [4%] patients), chest pain (two [2%] patients), diarrhoea (two [2%] patients), and nausea and vomiting (one [1%] patient).\n\n According to imaging examination, 74 (75%) patients showed bilateral pneumonia, 14 (14%) patients showed multiple mottling and ground-glass opacity, and one (1%) patient had pneumothorax.\n\n 17 (17%) patients developed acute respiratory distress syndrome and, among them, 11 (11%) patients worsened in a short period of time and died of multiple organ failure.\n\n\nInterpretation\nThe 2019-nCoV infection was of clustering onset, is more likely to affect older males with comorbidities, and can result in severe and even fatal respiratory diseases such as acute respiratory distress syndrome.\n\n In general, characteristics of patients who died were in line with the MuLBSTA score, an early warning model for predicting mortality in viral pneumonia.\n\n Further investigation is needed to explore the applicability of the MuLBSTA score in predicting the risk of mortality in 2019-nCoV infection.\n\n\nFunding\nNational Key R&amp;D Program of China.\n\n\n","id":"PMC7135076","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Elsevier Ltd.","authors":[{"firstname":"Nanshan","surname":"Chen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Min","surname":"Zhou","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xuan","surname":"Dong","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jieming","surname":"Qu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Fengyun","surname":"Gong","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yang","surname":"Han","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yang","surname":"Qiu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jingli","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ying","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yuan","surname":"Wei","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jia'an","surname":"Xia","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ting","surname":"Yu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xinxin","surname":"Zhang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Li","surname":"Zhang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1056/NEJMoa2001017","date":"1970-01-01","title":"A Novel Coronavirus from Patients with Pneumonia in China, 2019","abstract":"In December 2019, a cluster of patients with pneumonia of unknown cause was linked to a seafood wholesale market in Wuhan, China.\n A previously unknown betacoronavirus was discovered through the use of unbiased sequencing in samples from patients with pneumonia.\n Human airway epithelial cells were used to isolate a novel coronavirus, named 2019-nCoV, which formed a clade within the subgenus sarbecovirus, Orthocoronavirinae subfamily.\n Different from both MERS-CoV and SARS-CoV, 2019-nCoV is the seventh member of the family of coronaviruses that infect humans.\n Enhanced surveillance and further investigation are ongoing.\n (Funded by the National Key Research and Development Program of China and the National Major Project for Control and Prevention of Infectious Disease in China.\n)","id":"PMC7092803","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Massachusetts Medical Society","authors":[{"firstname":"Na","surname":"Zhu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Dingyu","surname":"Zhang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Wenling","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xingwang","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Bo","surname":"Yang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jingdong","surname":"Song","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xiang","surname":"Zhao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Baoying","surname":"Huang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Weifeng","surname":"Shi","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Roujian","surname":"Lu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Peihua","surname":"Niu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Faxian","surname":"Zhan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xuejun","surname":"Ma","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Dayan","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Wenbo","surname":"Xu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Guizhen","surname":"Wu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"George F.","surname":"Gao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Wenjie","surname":"Tan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1038/srep17155","date":"2015-10-26","title":"Inferring the hosts of coronavirus using dual statistical models based on nucleotide\ncomposition","abstract":"Many coronaviruses are capable of interspecies transmission.\n Some of them have caused\nworldwide panic as emerging human pathogens in recent years, e.\ng.\n, severe acute\nrespiratory syndrome coronavirus (SARS-CoV) and Middle East respiratory syndrome\ncoronavirus (MERS-CoV).\n In order to assess their threat to humans, we explored to\ninfer the potential hosts of coronaviruses using a dual-model approach based on\nnineteen parameters computed from spike genes of coronaviruses.\n Both the support\nvector machine (SVM) model and the Mahalanobis distance (MD) discriminant model\nachieved high accuracies in leave-one-out cross-validation of training data\nconsisting of 730 representative coronaviruses (99.86% and 98.08% respectively).\n\nPredictions on 47 additional coronaviruses precisely conformed to conclusions or\nspeculations by other researchers.\n Our approach is implemented as a web server that\ncan be accessed at http://bioinfo.\nihb.\nac.\ncn/seq2hosts.\n","id":"PMC4660426","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Nature Publishing Group","authors":[{"firstname":"Qin","surname":"Tang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yulong","surname":"Song","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Mijuan","surname":"Shi","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yingyin","surname":"Cheng","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Wanting","surname":"Zhang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xiao-Qin","surname":"Xia","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1056/NEJMc2001272","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Importation and Human-to-Human Transmission of a Novel Coronavirus in Vietnam","abstract":"","id":"PMC7121428","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Massachusetts Medical Society","authors":[{"firstname":"Lan T.","surname":"Phan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Thuong V.","surname":"Nguyen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Quang C.","surname":"Luong","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Thinh V.","surname":"Nguyen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hieu T.","surname":"Nguyen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hung Q.","surname":"Le","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hung Q.","surname":"Le","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Thuc T.","surname":"Nguyen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Thang M.","surname":"Cao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Thang M.","surname":"Cao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Quang D.","surname":"Pham","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1016/j.jgar.2020.02.021","date":"2020-02-21","title":"2019 novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV) outbreak: A new challenge","abstract":"\n\n\n•\nIn December 2019, a novel Betacoronavirus (2019-nCoV; SARS-CoV-2) was recognised and has rapidly spread across continents.\n","id":"PMC7102618","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Published by Elsevier Ltd on behalf of International Society for Antimicrobial Chemotherapy.","authors":[{"firstname":"Tommaso","surname":"Lupia","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Silvia","surname":"Scabini","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Simone","surname":"Mornese Pinna","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Giovanni","surname":"Di Perri","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Francesco Giuseppe","surname":"De Rosa","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Silvia","surname":"Corcione","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1001/jama.2020.1585","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Clinical Characteristics of 138 Hospitalized Patients With 2019 Novel Coronavirus-Infected Pneumonia in Wuhan","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1097/CM9.0000000000000722","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Identification of a novel coronavirus causing severe pneumonia in human: a descriptive study","abstract":"Background\nHuman infections with zoonotic coronaviruses (CoVs), including severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS)-CoV and Middle East respiratory syndrome (MERS)-CoV, have raised great public health concern globally.\n\n Here, we report a novel bat-origin CoV causing severe and fatal pneumonia in humans.\n\n\nMethods\nWe collected clinical data and bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) specimens from five patients with severe pneumonia from Wuhan Jinyintan Hospital, Hubei province, China.\n\n Nucleic acids of the BAL were extracted and subjected to next-generation sequencing.\n\n Virus isolation was carried out, and maximum-likelihood phylogenetic trees were constructed.\n\n\nResults\nFive patients hospitalized from December 18 to December 29, 2019 presented with fever, cough, and dyspnea accompanied by complications of acute respiratory distress syndrome.\n\n Chest radiography revealed diffuse opacities and consolidation.\n\n One of these patients died.\n\n Sequence results revealed the presence of a previously unknown ?-CoV strain in all five patients, with 99.8% to 99.9% nucleotide identities among the isolates.\n\n These isolates showed 79.0% nucleotide identity with the sequence of SARS-CoV (GenBank NC_004718) and 51.8% identity with the sequence of MERS-CoV (GenBank NC_019843).\n\n The virus is phylogenetically closest to a bat SARS-like CoV (SL-ZC45, GenBank MG772933) with 87.6% to 87.7% nucleotide identity, but is in a separate clade.\n\n Moreover, these viruses have a single intact open reading frame gene 8, as a further indicator of bat-origin CoVs.\n\n However, the amino acid sequence of the tentative receptor-binding domain resembles that of SARS-CoV, indicating that these viruses might use the same receptor.\n\n\nConclusion\nA novel bat-borne CoV was identified that is associated with severe and fatal respiratory disease in humans.\n\n\n","id":"PMC7147275","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Wolters Kluwer Health","authors":[{"firstname":"Li-Li","surname":"Ren","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ye-Ming","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zhi-Qiang","surname":"Wu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zi-Chun","surname":"Xiang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Li","surname":"Guo","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Teng","surname":"Xu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yong-Zhong","surname":"Jiang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yan","surname":"Xiong","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yong-Jun","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xing-Wang","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hui","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Guo-Hui","surname":"Fan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xiao-Ying","surname":"Gu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yan","surname":"Xiao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hong","surname":"Gao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jiu-Yang","surname":"Xu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Fan","surname":"Yang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xin-Ming","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Chao","surname":"Wu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Lan","surname":"Chen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yi-Wei","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Bo","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jian","surname":"Yang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xiao-Rui","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jie","surname":"Dong","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Li","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Chao-Lin","surname":"Huang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jian-Ping","surname":"Zhao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yi","surname":"Hu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zhen-Shun","surname":"Cheng","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Lin-Lin","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zhao-Hui","surname":"Qian","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Chuan","surname":"Qin","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Qi","surname":"Jin","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Bin","surname":"Cao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jian-Wei","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xiu-Yuan","surname":"Hao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xiu-Yuan","surname":"Hao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Pei-Fang","surname":"Wei","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1038/s41586-020-2008-3","date":"2020-01-28","title":"A new coronavirus associated with human respiratory disease in China","abstract":"id='Par1'>Emerging infectious diseases, such as severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) and Zika virus disease, present a major threat to public health1–3.\n Despite intense research efforts, how, when and where new diseases appear are still a source of considerable uncertainty.\n A severe respiratory disease was recently reported in Wuhan, Hubei province, China.\n As of 25 January 2020, at least 1,975 cases had been reported since the first patient was hospitalized on 12 December 2019. Epidemiological investigations have suggested that the outbreak was associated with a seafood market in Wuhan.\n Here we study a single patient who was a worker at the market and who was admitted to the Central Hospital of Wuhan on 26 December 2019 while experiencing a severe respiratory syndrome that included fever, dizziness and a cough.\n Metagenomic RNA sequencing4 of a sample of bronchoalveolar lavage fluid from the patient identified a new RNA virus strain from the family Coronaviridae, which is designated here ‘WH-Human 1’ coronavirus (and has also been referred to as ‘2019-nCoV’).\n Phylogenetic analysis of the complete viral genome (29,903 nucleotides) revealed that the virus was most closely related (89.1% nucleotide similarity) to a group of SARS-like coronaviruses (genus Betacoronavirus, subgenus Sarbecovirus) that had previously been found in bats in China5.\n This outbreak highlights the ongoing ability of viral spill-over from animals to cause severe disease in humans.\n","id":"PMC7094943","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Nature Publishing Group UK","authors":[{"firstname":"Fan","surname":"Wu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Su","surname":"Zhao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Bin","surname":"Yu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yan-Mei","surname":"Chen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Wen","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zhi-Gang","surname":"Song","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yi","surname":"Hu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zhao-Wu","surname":"Tao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zhao-Wu","surname":"Tao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jun-Hua","surname":"Tian","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yuan-Yuan","surname":"Pei","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ming-Li","surname":"Yuan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yu-Ling","surname":"Zhang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Fa-Hui","surname":"Dai","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yi","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Qi-Min","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jiao-Jiao","surname":"Zheng","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Lin","surname":"Xu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Edward C.","surname":"Holmes","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yong-Zhen","surname":"Zhang","email":"zhangyongzhen@shphc.org.cn","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yong-Zhen","surname":"Zhang","email":"zhangyongzhen@shphc.org.cn","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1016/j.micinf.2020.01.003","date":"2020-01-24","title":"Measures for diagnosing and treating infections by a novel coronavirus responsible for a pneumonia outbreak originating in Wuhan, China","abstract":"On 10 January 2020, a new coronavirus causing a pneumonia outbreak in Wuhan City in central China was denoted as 2019-nCoV by the World Health Organization (WHO).\n As of 24 January 2020, there were 887 confirmed cases of 2019-nCoV infection, including 26 deaths, reported in China and other countries.\n Therefore, combating this new virus and stopping the epidemic is a matter of urgency.\n Here, we focus on advances in research and development of fast diagnosis methods, as well as potential prophylactics and therapeutics to prevent or treat 2019-nCoV infection.\n","id":"PMC7102556","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Institut Pasteur. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.","authors":[{"firstname":"Fei","surname":"Yu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Lanying","surname":"Du","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"David M.","surname":"Ojcius","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Chungen","surname":"Pan","email":"chungenp@163.com","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Shibo","surname":"Jiang","email":"shibojiang@fudan.edu.cn","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1164/rccm.2014P7","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Novel Wuhan (2019-nCoV) coronavirus","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1128/JVI.78.15.7863-7866.2004","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus phylogeny: toward consensus","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Diagnosis and treatment of new coronavirus pneumonia (trial version 7) [J / OL]. Tianjin J Tradit Chin Med. 2020;1-5. http://kns.cnki.net/kcms/detail/12.1349.R.20200304.1638.006.html. Accessed 3 June 2020.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.21037/apm-20-1272","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Clinical outcome of standardized oxygen therapy nursing strategy in COVID-19","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/S1473-3099(20)30086-4","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Radiological findings from 81 patients with COVID-19 pneumonia in Wuhan, China: a descriptive study","abstract":"Background\nA cluster of patients with coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pneumonia caused by infection with severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) were successively reported in Wuhan, China.\n\n We aimed to describe the CT findings across different timepoints throughout the disease course.\n\n\nMethods\nPatients with COVID-19 pneumonia (confirmed by next-generation sequencing or RT-PCR) who were admitted to one of two hospitals in Wuhan and who underwent serial chest CT scans were retrospectively enrolled.\n\n Patients were grouped on the basis of the interval between symptom onset and the first CT scan: group 1 (subclinical patients; scans done before symptom onset), group 2 (scans done ?1 week after symptom onset), group 3 (&gt;1 week to 2 weeks), and group 4 (&gt;2 weeks to 3 weeks).\n\n Imaging features and their distribution were analysed and compared across the four groups.\n\n\nFindings\n81 patients admitted to hospital between Dec 20, 2019, and Jan 23, 2020, were retrospectively enrolled.\n\n The cohort included 42 (52%) men and 39 (48%) women, and the mean age was 49·5 years (SD 11·0).\n\n The mean number of involved lung segments was 10·5 (SD 6·4) overall, 2·8 (3·3) in group 1, 11·1 (5·4) in group 2, 13·0 (5·7) in group 3, and 12·1 (5·9) in group 4. The predominant pattern of abnormality observed was bilateral (64 [79%] patients), peripheral (44 [54%]), ill-defined (66 [81%]), and ground-glass opacification (53 [65%]), mainly involving the right lower lobes (225 [27%] of 849 affected segments).\n\n In group 1 (n=15), the predominant pattern was unilateral (nine [60%]) and multifocal (eight [53%]) ground-glass opacities (14 [93%]).\n\n Lesions quickly evolved to bilateral (19 [90%]), diffuse (11 [52%]) ground-glass opacity predominance (17 [81%]) in group 2 (n=21).\n\n Thereafter, the prevalence of ground-glass opacities continued to decrease (17 [57%] of 30 patients in group 3, and five [33%] of 15 in group 4), and consolidation and mixed patterns became more frequent (12 [40%] in group 3, eight [53%] in group 4).\n\n\nInterpretation\nCOVID-19 pneumonia manifests with chest CT imaging abnormalities, even in asymptomatic patients, with rapid evolution from focal unilateral to diffuse bilateral ground-glass opacities that progressed to or co-existed with consolidations within 1–3 weeks.\n\n Combining assessment of imaging features with clinical and laboratory findings could facilitate early diagnosis of COVID-19 pneumonia.\n\n\nFunding\nNone.\n\n\n","id":"PMC7159053","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Elsevier Ltd.","authors":[{"firstname":"Heshui","surname":"Shi","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xiaoyu","surname":"Han","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Nanchuan","surname":"Jiang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yukun","surname":"Cao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Osamah","surname":"Alwalid","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jin","surname":"Gu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yanqing","surname":"Fan","email":"1024932023@qq.com","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Chuansheng","surname":"Zheng","email":"hqzcsxh@sina.com","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1007/s11427-020-1637-5","date":"2020-01-20","title":"Evolution of the novel coronavirus from the ongoing Wuhan outbreak and modeling of its spike protein for risk of human transmission","abstract":"","id":"PMC7089049","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Science China Press","authors":[{"firstname":"Xintian","surname":"Xu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ping","surname":"Chen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jingfang","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jiannan","surname":"Feng","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hui","surname":"Zhou","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xuan","surname":"Li","email":"lixuan@sippe.ac.cn","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Wu","surname":"Zhong","email":"zhongwu@bmi.ac.cn","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Pei","surname":"Hao","email":"phao@ips.ac.cn","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1007/s00018-004-4242-5","date":"1970-01-01","title":"What’s new in the renin-angiotensin system?","abstract":"Cellular entry of enveloped viruses is often dependent on attachment proteins expressed on the host cell surface.\n Viral envelope proteins bind these receptors, and, in an incompletely understood process, facilitate fusion of the cellular and viral membranes so as to introduce the viral core into the cytoplasm.\n Only a small fraction of viral receptors have been identified so far.\n Recently, a novel coronavirus was identified as the etiological agent of severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS).\n The fusion protein gene of SARS coronavirus (SARS-CoV) was cloned and characterized, and shortly thereafter, angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2) was shown to be its functional receptor.\n Identification of ACE2 as a receptor for SARS-CoV will likely contribute to the development of antivirals and vaccines.\n It may also contribute to the development of additional animal models for studying SARS pathogenesis, and could help identify the animal reservoir of SARS-CoV.\n","id":"PMC7079798","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Birkhäuser-Verlag","authors":[{"firstname":"J. H.","surname":"Kuhn","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"W.","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"H.","surname":"Choe","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"M.","surname":"Farzan","email":"farzan@mbcrr.harvard.edu","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1007/s11684-020-0754-0","date":"2020-02-08","title":"Single-cell RNA-seq data analysis on the receptor ACE2 expression reveals the potential risk of different human organs vulnerable to 2019-nCoV infection","abstract":"Electronic Supplementary Material\nSupplementary material is available for this article at 10.1007/s11684-020-0754-0 and is accessible for authorized users.\n\n\n","id":"PMC7088738","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Higher Education Press","authors":[{"firstname":"Xin","surname":"Zou","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ke","surname":"Chen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jiawei","surname":"Zou","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Peiyi","surname":"Han","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jie","surname":"Hao","email":"j.hao@sjtu.edu.cn","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zeguang","surname":"Han","email":"hanzg@sjtu.edu.cn","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1038/s41368-020-0074-x","date":"2020-02-15","title":"High expression of ACE2 receptor of 2019-nCoV on the epithelial cells of oral mucosa","abstract":"id='Par1'>It has been reported that ACE2 is the main host cell receptor of 2019-nCoV and plays a crucial role in the entry of virus into the cell to cause the final infection.\n To investigate the potential route of 2019-nCov infection on the mucosa of oral cavity, bulk RNA-seq profiles from two public databases including The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) and Functional Annotation of The Mammalian Genome Cap Analysis of Gene Expression (FANTOM5 CAGE) dataset were collected.\n RNA-seq profiling data of 13 organ types with para-carcinoma normal tissues from TCGA and 14 organ types with normal tissues from FANTOM5 CAGE were analyzed in order to explore and validate the expression of ACE2 on the mucosa of oral cavity.\n Further, single-cell transcriptomes from an independent data generated in-house were used to identify and confirm the ACE2-expressing cell composition and proportion in oral cavity.\n The results demonstrated that the ACE2 expressed on the mucosa of oral cavity.\n Interestingly, this receptor was highly enriched in epithelial cells of tongue.\n Preliminarily, those findings have explained the basic mechanism that the oral cavity is a potentially high risk for 2019-nCoV infectious susceptibility and provided a piece of evidence for the future prevention strategy in dental clinical practice as well as daily life.\n","id":"PMC7039956","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Nature Publishing Group UK","authors":[{"firstname":"Hao","surname":"Xu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Liang","surname":"Zhong","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jiaxin","surname":"Deng","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jiakuan","surname":"Peng","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hongxia","surname":"Dan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xin","surname":"Zeng","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Taiwen","surname":"Li","email":"litaiwen@scu.edu.cn","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Qianming","surname":"Chen","email":"qmchen@scu.edu.cn","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1002/path.1570","date":"2004-03-15","title":"Tissue distribution of ACE2 protein, the functional receptor for SARS coronavirus. A first step in understanding SARS pathogenesis","abstract":"Severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) is an acute infectious disease that spreads mainly via the respiratory route.\n A distinct coronavirus (SARS?CoV) has been identified as the aetiological agent of SARS.\n Recently, a metallopeptidase named angiotensin?converting enzyme 2 (ACE2) has been identified as the functional receptor for SARS?CoV.\n Although ACE2 mRNA is known to be present in virtually all organs, its protein expression is largely unknown.\n Since identifying the possible route of infection has major implications for understanding the pathogenesis and future treatment strategies for SARS, the present study investigated the localization of ACE2 protein in various human organs (oral and nasal mucosa, nasopharynx, lung, stomach, small intestine, colon, skin, lymph nodes, thymus, bone marrow, spleen, liver, kidney, and brain).\n The most remarkable finding was the surface expression of ACE2 protein on lung alveolar epithelial cells and enterocytes of the small intestine.\n Furthermore, ACE2 was present in arterial and venous endothelial cells and arterial smooth muscle cells in all organs studied.\n In conclusion, ACE2 is abundantly present in humans in the epithelia of the lung and small intestine, which might provide possible routes of entry for the SARS?CoV.\n This epithelial expression, together with the presence of ACE2 in vascular endothelium, also provides a first step in understanding the pathogenesis of the main SARS disease manifestations.\n Copyright © 2004 Pathological Society of Great Britain and Ireland.\n Published by John Wiley &amp; Sons, Ltd.\n","id":"PMC7167720","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"John Wiley &amp; Sons, Ltd.","authors":[{"firstname":"I","surname":"Hamming","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"W","surname":"Timens","email":"w.timens@path.azg.nl","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"MLC","surname":"Bulthuis","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"AT","surname":"Lely","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"GJ","surname":"Navis","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"H","surname":"van Goor","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1126/science.abb2507","date":"2020-02-17","title":"Cryo-EM structure of the 2019-nCoV spike in the prefusion conformation","abstract":"The World Health Organization has declared the outbreak of a novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV) to be a public health emergency of international concern.\n The virus binds to host cells through its trimeric spike glycoprotein, making this protein a key target for potential therapies and diagnostics.\n Wrapp et al.\n determined a 3.5-angstrom-resolution structure of the 2019-nCoV trimeric spike protein by cryo–electron microscopy.\n Using biophysical assays, the authors show that this protein binds at least 10 times more tightly than the corresponding spike protein of severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS)–CoV to their common host cell receptor.\n They also tested three antibodies known to bind to the SARS-CoV spike protein but did not detect binding to the 2019-nCoV spike protein.\n These studies provide valuable information to guide the development of medical counter-measures for 2019-nCoV.\n","id":"PMC7164637","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"American Association for the Advancement of Science","authors":[{"firstname":"Daniel","surname":"Wrapp","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Nianshuang","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Nianshuang","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Kizzmekia S.","surname":"Corbett","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Kizzmekia S.","surname":"Corbett","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jory A.","surname":"Goldsmith","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jory A.","surname":"Goldsmith","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ching-Lin","surname":"Hsieh","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Olubukola","surname":"Abiona","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Barney S.","surname":"Graham","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Barney S.","surname":"Graham","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jason S.","surname":"McLellan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jason S.","surname":"McLellan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1002/path.1560","date":"2004-02-12","title":"Organ distribution of severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) associated coronavirus (SARS?CoV) in SARS patients: implications for pathogenesis and virus transmission pathways","abstract":"We previously identified the major pathological changes in the respiratory and immune systems of patients who died of severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) but gained little information on the organ distribution of SARS?associated coronavirus (SARS?CoV).\n In the present study, we used a murine monoclonal antibody specific for SARS?CoV nucleoprotein, and probes specific for a SARS?CoV RNA polymerase gene fragment, for immunohistochemistry and in situ hybridization, respectively, to detect SARS?CoV systematically in tissues from patients who died of SARS.\n SARS?CoV was found in lung, trachea/bronchus, stomach, small intestine, distal convoluted renal tubule, sweat gland, parathyroid, pituitary, pancreas, adrenal gland, liver and cerebrum, but was not detected in oesophagus, spleen, lymph node, bone marrow, heart, aorta, cerebellum, thyroid, testis, ovary, uterus or muscle.\n These results suggest that, in addition to the respiratory system, the gastrointestinal tract and other organs with detectable SARS?CoV may also be targets of SARS?CoV infection.\n The pathological changes in these organs may be caused directly by the cytopathic effect mediated by local replication of the SARS?CoV; or indirectly as a result of systemic responses to respiratory failure or the harmful immune response induced by viral infection.\n In addition to viral spread through a respiratory route, SARS?CoV in the intestinal tract, kidney and sweat glands may be excreted via faeces, urine and sweat, thereby leading to virus transmission.\n This study provides important information for understanding the pathogenesis of SARS?CoV infection and sheds light on possible virus transmission pathways.\n This data will be useful for designing new strategies for prevention and treatment of SARS.\n Copyright © 2004 Pathological Society of Great Britain and Ireland.\n Published by John Wiley &amp; Sons, Ltd.\n","id":"PMC7167761","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"John Wiley &amp; Sons, Ltd.","authors":[{"firstname":"Yanqing","surname":"Ding","email":"dyq@fimmu.com","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Li","surname":"He","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Qingling","surname":"Zhang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zhongxi","surname":"Huang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xiaoyan","surname":"Che","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jinlin","surname":"Hou","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Huijun","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hong","surname":"Shen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Liwen","surname":"Qiu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zhuguo","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jian","surname":"Geng","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Junjie","surname":"Cai","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Huixia","surname":"Han","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xin","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Wei","surname":"Kang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Desheng","surname":"Weng","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ping","surname":"Liang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Shibo","surname":"Jiang","email":"sjiang@nybloodcenter.org","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1086/381535","date":"2003-08-21","title":"Significant Changes of Peripheral T Lymphocyte Subsets in Patients with Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome","abstract":"This report demonstrates that a rapid decrease of peripheral T cell subsets is a unique characteristic in patients with SARS during acute infection, although total white blood cell counts, red blood cell counts, and platelet counts remain relatively normal.\n In recovering patients, a rapid and dramatic restoration of peripheral T cell subsets was seen in the periphery.\n Although the underlying mechanism of the acute decrease of peripheral T cell subsets observed in patients with SARS during the acute stage remains unknown, this clinical characteristic can facilitate an earlier and more accurate diagnosis of SARS.\n","id":"PMC7109946","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"The University of Chicago Press","authors":[{"firstname":"Taisheng","surname":"Li","email":"tli@21cn.com","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zhifeng","surname":"Qiu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Linqi","surname":"Zhang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yang","surname":"Han","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Wei","surname":"He","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zhengyin","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xiaojun","surname":"Ma","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hongwei","surname":"Fan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Wei","surname":"Lu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jing","surname":"Xie","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Huanling","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Guohua","surname":"Deng","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Aixia","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1002/jmv.25709","date":"2020-02-13","title":"Overlapping and discrete aspects of the pathology and pathogenesis of the emerging human pathogenic coronaviruses SARS?CoV, MERS?CoV, and 2019?nCoV","abstract":"First reported from Wuhan, The People's Republic of China, on 31 December 2019, the ongoing outbreak of a novel coronavirus (2019?nCoV) causes great global concerns.\n Based on the advice of the International Health Regulations Emergency Committee and the fact that to date 24 other countries also reported cases, the WHO Director?General declared that the outbreak of 2019?nCoV constitutes a Public Health Emergency of International Concern on 30 January 2020. Together with the other two highly pathogenic coronaviruses, the severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus (SARS?CoV) and Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus (MERS?CoV), 2019?nCov and other yet to be identified coronaviruses pose a global threat to public health.\n In this mini?review, we provide a brief introduction to the pathology and pathogenesis of SARS?CoV and MERS?CoV and extrapolate this knowledge to the newly identified 2019?nCoV.\n","id":"PMC7166760","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"John Wiley and Sons Inc.","authors":[{"firstname":"Jia","surname":"Liu","email":"jialiu77@hust.edu.cn","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xin","surname":"Zheng","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xin","surname":"Zheng","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Qiaoxia","surname":"Tong","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Wei","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Baoju","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Kathrin","surname":"Sutter","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Mirko","surname":"Trilling","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Mengji","surname":"Lu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ulf","surname":"Dittmer","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Dongliang","surname":"Yang","email":"dlyang@hust.edu.cn","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1016/j.cca.2020.06.012","date":"2020-06-03","title":"Lactate dehydrogenase and C-reactive protein as predictors of respiratory failure in CoVID-19 patients","abstract":"\n\n\n•\nCOVID19 patients can develop severe acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS).\n","id":"PMC7282743","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Elsevier B.V.","authors":[{"firstname":"Erika","surname":"Poggiali","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Domenica","surname":"Zaino","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Paolo","surname":"Immovilli","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Luca","surname":"Rovero","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Giulia","surname":"Losi","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Alessandro","surname":"Dacrema","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Marzia","surname":"Nuccetelli","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Giovanni Battista","surname":"Vadacca","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Donata","surname":"Guidetti","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Andrea","surname":"Vercelli","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Andrea","surname":"Magnacavallo","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Sergio","surname":"Bernardini","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Chiara","surname":"Terracciano","email":"c.terracciano@ausl.pc.it","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.18632/aging.103372","date":"2020-05-22","title":"Lactate dehydrogenase, an independent risk factor of severe COVID-19 patients: a retrospective and observational study","abstract":"Background: The World Health Organization has declared coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) a public health emergency of global concern.\n Updated analysis of cases might help identify the risk factors of illness severity.\n","id":"PMC7343511","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Impact Journals","authors":[{"firstname":"Yi","surname":"Han","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Haidong","surname":"Zhang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Sucheng","surname":"Mu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Wei","surname":"Wei","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Chaoyuan","surname":"Jin","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Chaoyang","surname":"Tong","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zhenju","surname":"Song","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yunfei","surname":"Zha","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yuan","surname":"Xue","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Guorong","surname":"Gu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1002/jmv.25871","date":"2020-04-09","title":"C?reactive protein correlates with computed tomographic findings and predicts severe COVID?19 early","abstract":"COVID?19 has developed into a worldwide pandemic; early identification of severe illness is critical for controlling it and improving the prognosis of patients with limited medical resources.\n The present study aimed to analyze the characteristics of severe COVID?19 and identify biomarkers for differential diagnosis and prognosis prediction.\n In total, 27 consecutive patients with COVID?19 and 75 patients with flu were retrospectively enrolled.\n Clinical parameters were collected from electronic medical records.\n The disease course was divided into four stages: initial, progression, peak, and recovery stages, according to computed tomography (CT) progress.\n to mild COVID?19, the lymphocytes in the severe COVID?19 progressively decreased at the progression and the peak stages, but rebound in the recovery stage.\n The levels of C?reactive protein (CRP) in the severe group at the initial and progression stages were higher than those in the mild group.\n Correlation analysis showed that CRP (R?=?.\n62; P?&lt;?.\n01), erythrocyte sedimentation rate (R?=?.\n55; P?&lt;?.\n01) and granulocyte/lymphocyte ratio (R?=?.\n49; P?&lt;?.\n01) were positively associated with the CT severity scores.\n In contrast, the number of lymphocytes (R?=??.\n37; P?&lt;?.\n01) was negatively correlated with the CT severity scores.\n The receiver?operating characteristic analysis demonstrated that area under the curve of CRP on the first visit for predicting severe COVID?19 was 0.87 (95% CI 0.10–1.00) at 20.42 mg/L cut?off, with sensitivity and specificity 83% and 91%, respectively.\n CRP in severe COVID?19 patients increased significantly at the initial stage, before CT findings.\n Importantly, CRP, which was associated with disease development, predicted early severe COVID?19.","id":"PMC7262341","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"John Wiley and Sons Inc.","authors":[{"firstname":"Chaochao","surname":"Tan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ying","surname":"Huang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ying","surname":"Huang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Fengxia","surname":"Shi","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Kui","surname":"Tan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Qionghui","surname":"Ma","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yong","surname":"Chen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xixin","surname":"Jiang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xiaosong","surname":"Li","email":"lxsong0308@163.com","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1016/j.eclinm.2020.100375","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Eosinopenia and elevated C-reactive protein facilitate triage of COVID-19 patients in fever clinic: A retrospective case-control study","abstract":"Background\nCoronavirus disease (COVID-19) caused by severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) is currently a pandemic affecting over 200 countries.\n\n Many cities have established designated fever clinics to triage suspected COVID-19 patients from other patients with similar symptoms.\n\n However, given the limited availability of the nucleic acid test as well as long waiting time for both the test and radiographic examination, the quarantine or therapeutic decisions for a large number of mixed patients were often not made in time.\n\n We aimed to identify simple and quickly available laboratory biomarkers to facilitate effective triage at the fever clinics for sorting suspected COVID-19 patients from those with COVID-19-like symptoms.\n\n\nMethods\nWe collected clinical, etiological, and laboratory data of 989 patients who visited the Fever Clinic at Wuhan Union Hospital, Wuhan, China, from Jan 31 to Feb 21. Based on polymerase chain reaction (PCR) nucleic acid testing for SARS-CoV-2 infection, they were divided into two groups: SARS-CoV-2-positive patients as cases and SARS-CoV-2-negative patients as controls.\n\n We compared the clinical features and laboratory findings of the two groups, and analyzed the diagnostic performance of several laboratory parameters in predicting SARS-CoV-2 infection and made relevant comparisons to the China diagnosis guideline of having a normal or decreased number of leukocytes (?9·5 109/L) or lymphopenia (&lt;1·1 109/L).\n\n\nFindings\nNormal or decreased number of leukocytes (?9·5 109/L), lymphopenia (&lt;1·1 109/L), eosinopenia (&lt;0·02 109/L), and elevated hs-CRP (?4 mg/L) were presented in 95·0%, 52·2%, 74·7% and 86·7% of COVID-19 patients, much higher than 87·2%, 28·8%, 31·3% and 45·2% of the controls, respectively.\n\n The eosinopenia produced a sensitivity of 74·7% and specificity of 68·7% for separating the two groups with the area under the curve (AUC) of 0·717. The combination of eosinopenia and elevated hs-CRP yielded a sensitivity of 67·9% and specificity of 78·2% (AUC=0·730).\n\n The addition of eosinopenia alone or the combination of eosinopenia and elevated hs-CRP into the guideline-recommended diagnostic parameters for COVID-19 improved the predictive capacity with higher than zero of both net reclassification improvement (NRI) and integrated discrimination improvement (IDI).\n\n\nInterpretation\nThe combination of eosinopenia and elevated hs-CRP can effectively triage suspected COVID-19 patients from other patients attending the fever clinic with COVID-19-like initial symptoms.\n\n This finding would be particularly useful for designing triage strategies in an epidemic region having a large number of patients with COVID-19 and other respiratory diseases while limited medical resources for nucleic acid tests and radiographic examination.\n\n\n","id":"PMC7196382","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Elsevier","authors":[{"firstname":"Qilin","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xiuli","surname":"Ding","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Geqing","surname":"Xia","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Heng-Gui","surname":"Chen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Fenghua","surname":"Chen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zhi","surname":"Geng","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Luming","surname":"Xu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Shijun","surname":"Lei","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"An","surname":"Pan","email":"panan@hust.edu.cn","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Lin","surname":"Wang","email":"lin_wang@hust.edu.cn","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zheng","surname":"Wang","email":"zhengwang@hust.edu.cn","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1001/jamacardio.2020.0950","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Association of cardiac injury with mortality in hospitalized patients with COVID-19 in Wuhan, China","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1001/jamacardio.2020.1017","date":"2020-03-09","title":"Cardiovascular Implications of Fatal Outcomes of Patients With Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19)","abstract":"This case series study evaluates the association of underlying cardiovascular disease and myocardial injury on fatal outcomes in patients with coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19).\n","id":"PMC7101506","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"American Medical Association","authors":[{"firstname":"Tao","surname":"Guo","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yongzhen","surname":"Fan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ming","surname":"Chen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xiaoyan","surname":"Wu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Lin","surname":"Zhang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Tao","surname":"He","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hairong","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jing","surname":"Wan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xinghuan","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zhibing","surname":"Lu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1016/S0140-6736(20)30566-3","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Clinical course and risk factors for mortality of adult inpatients with COVID-19 in Wuhan, China: a retrospective cohort study","abstract":"Background\nSince December, 2019, Wuhan, China, has experienced an outbreak of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19), caused by the severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2).\n\n Epidemiological and clinical characteristics of patients with COVID-19 have been reported but risk factors for mortality and a detailed clinical course of illness, including viral shedding, have not been well described.\n\n\nMethods\nIn this retrospective, multicentre cohort study, we included all adult inpatients (?18 years old) with laboratory-confirmed COVID-19 from Jinyintan Hospital and Wuhan Pulmonary Hospital (Wuhan, China) who had been discharged or had died by Jan 31, 2020. Demographic, clinical, treatment, and laboratory data, including serial samples for viral RNA detection, were extracted from electronic medical records and compared between survivors and non-survivors.\n\n We used univariable and multivariable logistic regression methods to explore the risk factors associated with in-hospital death.\n\n\nFindings\n191 patients (135 from Jinyintan Hospital and 56 from Wuhan Pulmonary Hospital) were included in this study, of whom 137 were discharged and 54 died in hospital.\n\n 91 (48%) patients had a comorbidity, with hypertension being the most common (58 [30%] patients), followed by diabetes (36 [19%] patients) and coronary heart disease (15 [8%] patients).\n\n Multivariable regression showed increasing odds of in-hospital death associated with older age (odds ratio 1·10, 95% CI 1·03–1·17, per year increase; p=0·0043), higher Sequential Organ Failure Assessment (SOFA) score (5·65, 2·61–12·23; p&lt;0·0001), and d-dimer greater than 1 ?g/mL (18·42, 2·64–128·55; p=0·0033) on admission.\n\n Median duration of viral shedding was 20·0 days (IQR 17·0–24·0) in survivors, but SARS-CoV-2 was detectable until death in non-survivors.\n\n The longest observed duration of viral shedding in survivors was 37 days.\n\n\nInterpretation\nThe potential risk factors of older age, high SOFA score, and d-dimer greater than 1 ?g/mL could help clinicians to identify patients with poor prognosis at an early stage.\n\n Prolonged viral shedding provides the rationale for a strategy of isolation of infected patients and optimal antiviral interventions in the future.\n\n\nFunding\nChinese Academy of Medical Sciences Innovation Fund for Medical Sciences; National Science Grant for Distinguished Young Scholars; National Key Research and Development Program of China; The Beijing Science and Technology Project; and Major Projects of National Science and Technology on New Drug Creation and Development.\n\n\n","id":"PMC7270627","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Elsevier Ltd.","authors":[{"firstname":"Fei","surname":"Zhou","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ting","surname":"Yu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ronghui","surname":"Du","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Guohui","surname":"Fan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ying","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zhibo","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jie","surname":"Xiang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yeming","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Bin","surname":"Song","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xiaoying","surname":"Gu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Lulu","surname":"Guan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yuan","surname":"Wei","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hui","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xudong","surname":"Wu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jiuyang","surname":"Xu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Shengjin","surname":"Tu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yi","surname":"Zhang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hua","surname":"Chen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Bin","surname":"Cao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1016/j.xcrm.2020.100052","date":"2020-06-18","title":"Human iPSC-Derived Cardiomyocytes Are Susceptible to SARS-CoV-2 Infection","abstract":"Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) is a pandemic caused by severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2).\n COVID-19 is defined by respiratory symptoms, but cardiac complications including viral myocarditis are also prevalent.\n Although ischemic and inflammatory responses caused by COVID-19 can detrimentally affect cardiac function, the direct impact of SARS-CoV-2 infection on human cardiomyocytes is not well understood.\n Here, we utilize human induced pluripotent stem cell-derived cardiomyocytes (hiPSC-CMs) as a model to examine the mechanisms of cardiomyocyte-specific infection by SARS-CoV-2. Microscopy and RNA sequencing demonstrate that SARS-CoV-2 can enter hiPSC-CMs via ACE2. Viral replication and cytopathic effect induce hiPSC-CM apoptosis and cessation of beating after 72 h of infection.\n SARS-CoV-2 infection activates innate immune response and antiviral clearance gene pathways, while inhibiting metabolic pathways and suppressing ACE2 expression.\n These studies show that SARS-CoV-2 can infect hiPSC-CMs in vitro, establishing a model for elucidating infection mechanisms and potentially a cardiac-specific antiviral drug screening platform.\n","id":"PMC7323681","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Elsevier","authors":[{"firstname":"Arun","surname":"Sharma","email":"arun.sharma@cshs.org","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Gustavo","surname":"Garcia","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yizhou","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jasmine T.","surname":"Plummer","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Kouki","surname":"Morizono","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Vaithilingaraja","surname":"Arumugaswami","email":"varumugaswami@mednet.ucla.edu","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Clive N.","surname":"Svendsen","email":"clive.svendsen@cshs.org","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1016/j.ajem.2020.04.048","date":"2020-04-14","title":"Cardiovascular complications in COVID-19","abstract":"Background\nThe coronavirus disease of 2019 (COVID-19) is caused by the severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2).\n\n While systemic inflammation and pulmonary complications can result in significant morbidity and mortality, cardiovascular complications may also occur.\n\n\nObjective\nThis brief report evaluates cardiovascular complications in the setting of COVID-19 infection.\n\n\nDiscussion\nThe current COVID-19 pandemic has resulted in over one million infected worldwide and thousands of death.\n\n The virus binds and enters through angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2).\n\n COVID-19 can result in systemic inflammation, multiorgan dysfunction, and critical illness.\n\n The cardiovascular system is also affected, with complications including myocardial injury, myocarditis, acute myocardial infarction, heart failure, dysrhythmias, and venous thromboembolic events.\n\n Current therapies for COVID-19 may interact with cardiovascular medications.\n\n\nConclusions\nEmergency clinicians should be aware of these cardiovascular complications when evaluating and managing the patient with COVID-19.\n","id":"PMC7165109","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"W B Saunders","authors":[{"firstname":"Brit","surname":"Long","email":"brit.long@yahoo.com","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"William J.","surname":"Brady","email":"WB4Z@hscmail.mcc.virginia.edu","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Alex","surname":"Koyfman","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Michael","surname":"Gottlieb","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1136/heartjnl-2020-317186","date":"1970-01-01","title":"COVID-19 pandemic and troponin: indirect myocardial injury, myocardial inflammation or myocarditis?","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/S0140-6736(20)30937-5","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Endothelial cell infection and endotheliitis in COVID-19","abstract":"","id":"PMC7172722","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Elsevier Ltd.","authors":[{"firstname":"Zsuzsanna","surname":"Varga","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Andreas J","surname":"Flammer","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Peter","surname":"Steiger","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Martina","surname":"Haberecker","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Rea","surname":"Andermatt","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Annelies S","surname":"Zinkernagel","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Mandeep R","surname":"Mehra","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Reto A","surname":"Schuepbach","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Frank","surname":"Ruschitzka","email":"frank.ruschitzka@usz.ch","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Holger","surname":"Moch","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Clinical features of patients infected with 2019 novel coronavirus in Wuhan, China","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"A familial cluster of pneumonia associated with the 2019 novel coronavirus indicating person-to-person transmission: a study of a family cluster","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/s0140-6736(20)30154-9","date":"1970-01-01","title":"A familial cluster of pneumonia associated with the 2019 novel coronavirus indicating person-to-person transmission: a study of a family cluster","abstract":"Background\nAn ongoing outbreak of pneumonia associated with a novel coronavirus was reported in Wuhan city, Hubei province, China.\n\n Affected patients were geographically linked with a local wet market as a potential source.\n\n No data on person-to-person or nosocomial transmission have been published to date.\n\n\nMethods\nIn this study, we report the epidemiological, clinical, laboratory, radiological, and microbiological findings of five patients in a family cluster who presented with unexplained pneumonia after returning to Shenzhen, Guangdong province, China, after a visit to Wuhan, and an additional family member who did not travel to Wuhan.\n\n Phylogenetic analysis of genetic sequences from these patients were done.\n\n\nFindings\nFrom Jan 10, 2020, we enrolled a family of six patients who travelled to Wuhan from Shenzhen between Dec 29, 2019 and Jan 4, 2020. Of six family members who travelled to Wuhan, five were identified as infected with the novel coronavirus.\n\n Additionally, one family member, who did not travel to Wuhan, became infected with the virus after several days of contact with four of the family members.\n\n None of the family members had contacts with Wuhan markets or animals, although two had visited a Wuhan hospital.\n\n Five family members (aged 36–66 years) presented with fever, upper or lower respiratory tract symptoms, or diarrhoea, or a combination of these 3–6 days after exposure.\n\n They presented to our hospital (The University of Hong Kong-Shenzhen Hospital, Shenzhen) 6–10 days after symptom onset.\n\n They and one asymptomatic child (aged 10 years) had radiological ground-glass lung opacities.\n\n Older patients (aged &gt;60 years) had more systemic symptoms, extensive radiological ground-glass lung changes, lymphopenia, thrombocytopenia, and increased C-reactive protein and lactate dehydrogenase levels.\n\n The nasopharyngeal or throat swabs of these six patients were negative for known respiratory microbes by point-of-care multiplex RT-PCR, but five patients (four adults and the child) were RT-PCR positive for genes encoding the internal RNA-dependent RNA polymerase and surface Spike protein of this novel coronavirus, which were confirmed by Sanger sequencing.\n\n Phylogenetic analysis of these five patients' RT-PCR amplicons and two full genomes by next-generation sequencing showed that this is a novel coronavirus, which is closest to the bat severe acute respiatory syndrome (SARS)-related coronaviruses found in Chinese horseshoe bats.\n\n\nInterpretation\nOur findings are consistent with person-to-person transmission of this novel coronavirus in hospital and family settings, and the reports of infected travellers in other geographical regions.\n\n\nFunding\nThe Shaw Foundation Hong Kong, Michael Seak-Kan Tong, Respiratory Viral Research Foundation Limited, Hui Ming, Hui Hoy and Chow Sin Lan Charity Fund Limited, Marina Man-Wai Lee, the Hong Kong Hainan Commercial Association South China Microbiology Research Fund, Sanming Project of Medicine (Shenzhen), and High Level-Hospital Program (Guangdong Health Commission).\n\n\n","id":"PMC7159286","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Elsevier Ltd.","authors":[{"firstname":"Jasper Fuk-Woo","surname":"Chan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Shuofeng","surname":"Yuan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Kin-Hang","surname":"Kok","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Kelvin Kai-Wang","surname":"To","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hin","surname":"Chu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jin","surname":"Yang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Fanfan","surname":"Xing","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jieling","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Cyril Chik-Yan","surname":"Yip","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Rosana Wing-Shan","surname":"Poon","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hoi-Wah","surname":"Tsoi","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Simon Kam-Fai","surname":"Lo","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Kwok-Hung","surname":"Chan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Vincent Kwok-Man","surname":"Poon","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Wan-Mui","surname":"Chan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jonathan Daniel","surname":"Ip","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jian-Piao","surname":"Cai","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Vincent Chi-Chung","surname":"Cheng","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Honglin","surname":"Chen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Christopher Kim-Ming","surname":"Hui","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Kwok-Yung","surname":"Yuen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Epidemiological and clinical characteristics of 99 cases of 2019 novel coronavirus pneumonia in Wuhan, China: adescriptivestudy","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/s0140-6736(20)30211-7[published","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Epidemiological and clinical characteristics of 99 cases of 2019 novel coronavirus pneumonia in Wuhan, China: a descriptive study","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"First case of 2019 novel coronavirus in the United States","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Clinical features of patients infected with 2019 novel coronavirus in Wuhan, China","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Lung CT image of a confirmed case of the 2019 novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV) infected pneumonia (With differential diagnosis of the SARS)","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1056/NEJMoa2001316","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Early Transmission Dynamics in Wuhan, China, of Novel Coronavirus–Infected Pneumonia","abstract":"Background\nThe initial cases of novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV)–infected pneumonia (NCIP) occurred in Wuhan, Hubei Province, China, in December 2019 and January 2020. We analyzed data on the first 425 confirmed cases in Wuhan to determine the epidemiologic characteristics of NCIP.\n\n\nMethods\nWe collected information on demographic characteristics, exposure history, and illness timelines of laboratory-confirmed cases of NCIP that had been reported by January 22, 2020. We described characteristics of the cases and estimated the key epidemiologic time-delay distributions.\n\n In the early period of exponential growth, we estimated the epidemic doubling time and the basic reproductive number.\n\n\nResults\nAmong the first 425 patients with confirmed NCIP, the median age was 59 years and 56% were male.\n\n The majority of cases (55%) with onset before January 1, 2020, were linked to the Huanan Seafood Wholesale Market, as compared with 8.6% of the subsequent cases.\n\n The mean incubation period was 5.2 days (95% confidence interval [CI], 4.1 to 7.0), with the 95th percentile of the distribution at 12.5 days.\n\n In its early stages, the epidemic doubled in size every 7.4 days.\n\n With a mean serial interval of 7.5 days (95% CI, 5.3 to 19), the basic reproductive number was estimated to be 2.2 (95% CI, 1.4 to 3.9).\n\n\nConclusions\nOn the basis of this information, there is evidence that human-to-human transmission has occurred among close contacts since the middle of December 2019. Considerable efforts to reduce transmission will be required to control outbreaks if similar dynamics apply elsewhere.\n\n Measures to prevent or reduce transmission should be implemented in populations at risk.\n\n (Funded by the Ministry of Science and Technology of China and others.\n\n)\n","id":"PMC7121484","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Massachusetts Medical Society","authors":[{"firstname":"Qun","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Xuhua","surname":"Guan","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Peng","surname":"Wu","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Xiaoye","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Lei","surname":"Zhou","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Yeqing","surname":"Tong","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ruiqi","surname":"Ren","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Kathy S.M.","surname":"Leung","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Eric H.Y.","surname":"Lau","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jessica Y.","surname":"Wong","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Xuesen","surname":"Xing","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Nijuan","surname":"Xiang","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Yang","surname":"Wu","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Chao","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Qi","surname":"Chen","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Dan","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Tian","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jing","surname":"Zhao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Man","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Wenxiao","surname":"Tu","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Chuding","surname":"Chen","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Lianmei","surname":"Jin","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Rui","surname":"Yang","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Qi","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Suhua","surname":"Zhou","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Rui","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Hui","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Yinbo","surname":"Luo","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Yuan","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ge","surname":"Shao","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Huan","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Zhongfa","surname":"Tao","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Yang","surname":"Yang","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Zhiqiang","surname":"Deng","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Boxi","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Zhitao","surname":"Ma","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Yanping","surname":"Zhang","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Guoqing","surname":"Shi","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Tommy T.Y.","surname":"Lam","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Joseph T.","surname":"Wu","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"George F.","surname":"Gao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Benjamin J.","surname":"Cowling","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Bo","surname":"Yang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Bo","surname":"Yang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Gabriel M.","surname":"Leung","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Zijian","surname":"Feng","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.1007/s15010-016-0972-1","date":"2016-11-24","title":"Role of neutrophil to lymphocyte and monocyte to lymphocyte ratios in the diagnosis of bacterial infection in patients with fever","abstract":"Purpose\nid='Par1'>To study the role of the neutrophil:lymphocyte ratio (NLR) and monocyte:lymphocyte ratio (MLR) in discriminating between different patient groups hospitalized for fever due to infection and those without infection.\n\n\nMethods\nid='Par2'>For 299 patients admitted to hospital for fever with unknown cause, a number of characteristics including NLR and MLR were recorded.\n\n These characteristics were used in a multiple multinomial regression analysis to estimate the probability of a final diagnostic group of bacterial, viral, clinically confirmed, or no infection.\n\n\nResults\nid='Par3'>Both NLR and MLR significantly predicted final diagnostic group.\n\n Being highly correlated, however, both variables could not be retained in the same model.\n\n Both variables also interacted significantly with duration of fever.\n\n Generally, higher values of NLR and MLR indicated larger probabilities for bacterial infection and low probabilities for viral infection.\n\n Patients with septicemia had significantly higher NLR compared to patients with other bacterial infections with fever for less than one week.\n\n White blood cell counts, neutrophil counts, and C-reactive proteins did not differ significantly between septicemia and the other bacterial infection groups.\n\n\nConclusions\nid='Par4'>NLR is a more useful diagnostic tool to identify patients with septicemia than other more commonly used diagnostic blood tests.\n\n NLR and MLR may be useful in the diagnosis of bacterial infection among patients hospitalized for fever.\n\n\n","id":"PMC5488068","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Springer Berlin Heidelberg","authors":[{"firstname":"Are","surname":"Naess","email":"are.nass@k2.uib.no","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Siri Saervold","surname":"Nilssen","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Siri Saervold","surname":"Nilssen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Reidun","surname":"Mo","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Geir Egil","surname":"Eide","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Haakon","surname":"Sjursen","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.1001/jama.2020.0757","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Coronavirus infections-more than just the common cold","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1186/s13054-014-0731-6","date":"2014-12-23","title":"The association between the neutrophil-to-lymphocyte ratio and mortality in critical illness: an observational cohort study","abstract":"Introduction\nThe neutrophil-to-lymphocyte ratio (NLR) is a biological marker that has been shown to be associated with outcomes in patients with a number of different malignancies.\n\n The objective of this study was to assess the relationship between NLR and mortality in a population of adult critically ill patients.\n\n\nMethods\nWe performed an observational cohort study of unselected intensive care unit (ICU) patients based on records in a large clinical database.\n\n We computed individual patient NLR and categorized patients by quartile of this ratio.\n\n The association of NLR quartiles and 28-day mortality was assessed using multivariable logistic regression.\n\n Secondary outcomes included mortality in the ICU, in-hospital mortality and 1-year mortality.\n\n An a priori subgroup analysis of patients with versus without sepsis was performed to assess any differences in the relationship between the NLR and outcomes in these cohorts.\n\n\nResults\nA total of 5,056 patients were included.\n\n Their 28-day mortality rate was 19%.\n\n The median age of the cohort was 65 years, and 47% were female.\n\n The median NLR for the entire cohort was 8.9 (interquartile range, 4.99 to 16.21).\n\n Following multivariable adjustments, there was a stepwise increase in mortality with increasing quartiles of NLR (first quartile: reference category; second quartile odds ratio (OR) = 1.32; 95% confidence interval (CI), 1.03 to 1.71; third quartile OR = 1.43; 95% CI, 1.12 to 1.83; 4th quartile OR = 1.71; 95% CI, 1.35 to 2.16).\n\n A similar stepwise relationship was identified in the subgroup of patients who presented without sepsis.\n\n The NLR was not associated with 28-day mortality in patients with sepsis.\n\n Increasing quartile of NLR was statistically significantly associated with secondary outcome.\n\n\nConclusion\nThe NLR is associated with outcomes in unselected critically ill patients.\n\n In patients with sepsis, there was no statistically significant relationship between NLR and mortality.\n\n Further investigation is required to increase understanding of the pathophysiology of this relationship and to validate these findings with data collected prospectively.\n\n\nElectronic supplementary material\nThe online version of this article (doi:10.1186/s13054-014-0731-6) contains supplementary material, which is available to authorized users.\n\n\n","id":"PMC4344736","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"BioMed Central","authors":[{"firstname":"Justin D","surname":"Salciccioli","email":"justin.salciccioli12@imperial.ac.uk","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Dominic C","surname":"Marshall","email":"dominic.marshall12@imperial.ac.uk","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Marco AF","surname":"Pimentel","email":"marco.pimentel@eng.ox.ac.uk","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Mauro D","surname":"Santos","email":"mauro.santos@eng.ox.ac.uk","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Tom","surname":"Pollard","email":"tom.pollard.11@ucl.ac.uk","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Leo Anthony","surname":"Celi","email":"lceli@mit.edu","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Joseph","surname":"Shalhoub","email":"j.shalhoub@imperial.ac.uk","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.1038/s41586-020-2008-3","date":"2020-01-28","title":"A new coronavirus associated with human respiratory disease in China","abstract":"id='Par1'>Emerging infectious diseases, such as severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) and Zika virus disease, present a major threat to public health1–3.\n Despite intense research efforts, how, when and where new diseases appear are still a source of considerable uncertainty.\n A severe respiratory disease was recently reported in Wuhan, Hubei province, China.\n As of 25 January 2020, at least 1,975 cases had been reported since the first patient was hospitalized on 12 December 2019. Epidemiological investigations have suggested that the outbreak was associated with a seafood market in Wuhan.\n Here we study a single patient who was a worker at the market and who was admitted to the Central Hospital of Wuhan on 26 December 2019 while experiencing a severe respiratory syndrome that included fever, dizziness and a cough.\n Metagenomic RNA sequencing4 of a sample of bronchoalveolar lavage fluid from the patient identified a new RNA virus strain from the family Coronaviridae, which is designated here ‘WH-Human 1’ coronavirus (and has also been referred to as ‘2019-nCoV’).\n Phylogenetic analysis of the complete viral genome (29,903 nucleotides) revealed that the virus was most closely related (89.1% nucleotide similarity) to a group of SARS-like coronaviruses (genus Betacoronavirus, subgenus Sarbecovirus) that had previously been found in bats in China5.\n This outbreak highlights the ongoing ability of viral spill-over from animals to cause severe disease in humans.\n","id":"PMC7094943","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Nature Publishing Group UK","authors":[{"firstname":"Fan","surname":"Wu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Su","surname":"Zhao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Bin","surname":"Yu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yan-Mei","surname":"Chen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Wen","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zhi-Gang","surname":"Song","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yi","surname":"Hu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zhao-Wu","surname":"Tao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zhao-Wu","surname":"Tao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jun-Hua","surname":"Tian","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yuan-Yuan","surname":"Pei","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Ming-Li","surname":"Yuan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yu-Ling","surname":"Zhang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Fa-Hui","surname":"Dai","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yi","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Qi-Min","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jiao-Jiao","surname":"Zheng","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Lin","surname":"Xu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Edward C.","surname":"Holmes","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yong-Zhen","surname":"Zhang","email":"zhangyongzhen@shphc.org.cn","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yong-Zhen","surname":"Zhang","email":"zhangyongzhen@shphc.org.cn","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1111/hdi.12549","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Monocyte/lymphocyte ratio as a better predictor of cardiovascular and all-cause mortality in hemodialysis patients: a prospective cohort study","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Ratio of neutrophil to lymphocyte counts-rapid and simple parameter of systemic inflammation and stress in critically ill","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.2147/TCRM.S206930","date":"2019-05-08","title":"Neutrophil–lymphocyte ratio as an early new marker in AIV-H7N9-infected patients: a retrospective study","abstract":"Background: Avian AIV-H7N9 influenza progresses rapidly and has a high fatality rate.\n However, it lacks an early effective biomarker to predict disease severity and fatal outcomes successfully.\n Our study aimed to explore whether the neutrophil-to-lymphocyte ratio (NLR) taken within 24 h after admission can predict disease severity and fatality in AIV-H7N9-infected patients.\n","id":"PMC6661995","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Dove","authors":[{"firstname":"Yan","surname":"Zhang","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Pengfei","surname":"Zou","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Hainv","surname":"Gao","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Meifang","surname":"Yang","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ping","surname":"Yi","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jianhe","surname":"Gan","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Yinzhong","surname":"Shen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Weihong","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Wenhong","surname":"Zhang","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jun","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Peng","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Lanjuan","surname":"Li","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Interpretation of pneumonia diagnosis and treatment scheme for novel coronavirus infection (trial version 6) [EB/OL].(2020). Available at:http://www.nhc.gov.cn/xcs/zhengcwj/202002/8334a8326dd94d329df351d7da8aefc2.shtml. Accessed February 2, 2020","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"WHO Novel Coronavirus(2019-nCoV) Situation Report -39[EB/OL]. (2020). Available at:https://www.who.int/docs/default-source/coronaviruse/situation-reports/20200228-sitrep-39-covid-19.pdf?sfvrsn=aa1b80a7_2. Accessed February 29, 2020","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Office of Health Emergency, National Health Commission. Update on pneumonia of new coronavirus infection as of 24:00 on February 28[EB/OL]. (2020). Available at:http://www.nhc.gov.cn/xcs/yqfkdt/202002/4ef8b5221b4d4740bda3145ac37e68ed.shtml. Accessed February 29, 2020","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"China Disease Control Report: more than 3,000 medical staff infected with new crown virus [EB / OL]. (2020). Available at: Http://hb.sina.com.cn/news/n/2020-02-18/detail-iimxyqvz3722095.shtml. Accessed February 18, 2020","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Ethical and legal challenges associated with disaster nursing","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Nurses' beliefs about public health emergencies: fear of abandonment","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"SARS: caring for patients in Hong Kong","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Nurses' experiences of care for patients with Middle East respiratory syndrome-coronavirus in South Korea","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Middle East Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus (MERS-CoV)","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Middle East Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus (MERS-CoV)","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Middle East Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus guidance version 5","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Emergency department workers' perceptions of effectiveness and reported compliance of infection control measures after Middle East respiratory syndrome outbreaks","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Middle East respiratory syndrome risk perception among students at a university in South Korea","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Public health crisis response and establishment of a crisis communication system in South Korea: lessons learned from the MERS outbreak","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Perceptions emergency nurses during the human swine influenza outbreak: a qualitative study","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) in Hong Kong: patients' experiences","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Ethical issue in pandemic planning","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Factors affected with post-traumatic stress in nurses involved in direct care for Middle East Respiratory Syndrome patients","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Long-term psychological and occupational effects of providing hospital healthcare during SARS outbreak","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Healthcare workers emotions, perceived stressors and coping strategies during MERS-CoV outbreak","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Knowledge, attitudes and perceptions of nurses on personal protective equipment: response to the Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Psychological distress of nurses in Taiwan who worked during the outbreak of SARS","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Factors influencing emergency nurses' ethical problems during the outbreak of MERS-CoV","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Factors influencing preventive behavior against Middle East Respiratory Syndrome-Coronavirus among nursing students in South Korea","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Healthcare workers' willingness to work during an influenza pandemic: a systematic review and meta-analysis","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"SARS: caring for patients in Hong Kong","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Factors influencing emergency nurses' burnout during an outbreak of Middle East Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus in Korea","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Health care workers' knowledge and confidence in personal protective equipment during the H1N1 pandemic in Israel","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Comparative study about the clinical nurse's job stress and turnover intention between a nursing care system wards and a general wards","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The experience of Korean nurses during the Middle East Respiratory Syndrome outbreak","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The psychosocial challenges of caring for patients with Ebola virus disease","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Healthcare worker semotions, perceived stressors and coping strategies during MERS-CoV outbreak","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Sources and symptoms of stress among nurses in the first Chinese anti-Ebola medical team during the Sierra Leone aid mission: a qualitative study","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Evaluation of perceived threat differences posed by filovirus variants","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Research progress on Ebola virus disease","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Clinical illness and outcomes in patients with Ebola in Sierra Leone","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Pathogenesis of the viral hemorrhagic fevers","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Clinical manifestations and case management of Ebola haemorrhagic fever caused by a newly identified virus strain, Bundibugyo, Uganda, 2007-2008","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Persistent immune responses after Ebola virus infection","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Profile and persistence of the virus-specific neutralizing humoral immune response in human survivors of Sudan Ebola virus (Gulu)","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Malaria vaccine, Ebola therapy promising in early studies","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Nurses' perceptions of risk from emerging respiratory infectious diseases: a Singapore study","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Providing care and facing death: nursing during Ebola outbreaks in central Africa","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Nurses' experiences of care for patients with Middle East respiratory syndrome-coronavirus in South Korea","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The psychosocial challenges of caring for patients with Ebola virus disease","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Hepatitis related stigma in chronic patients: a qualitative study","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Using Colaizzi's method of data analysis to explore the experiences of nurse academics teaching on satellite campuses","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"How is qualitative research taught at the master's level?","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Qualitative content analysis in nursing research: concepts, procedures and measures to achieve trustworthiness","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Reconceptualization of the uncertainty in illness theory","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"New Zealand nurses perceptions of caringfor patients with influenza A (H1N1)","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Prevalence of psychiatric morbidity and psychological adaptation of the nurses in a structured SARS caring unit during outbreak: a prospective and periodic assessment study in Taiwan","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"An inventory of measuring depression","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Psychometric properties of the Beck Depression Inventory: twenty-five years of evaluation","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Clinical features and short-term outcomes of 144 patients with SARS in the greater Toronto area","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index: a new instrument for psychiatric practice and research","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome - Taiwan","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Psychological impact of the 2003 severe acute respiratory syndrome outbreak on health care workers in a medium size regional general hospital in Singapore","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The Chinese version of the Davidson Trauma Scale: a practice test for validation","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Psychological distress of nurses in Taiwan who worked during the outbreak of SARS","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Adjustment outcomes in Chinese patients following one-month recovery from severe acute respiratory syndrome in Hong-Kong","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Psychological impact of severe acute respiratory syndrome on health workers in a tertiary hospital","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Survey of psychiatric disorders after an earthquake: MINI diagnosis for a village population in Taiwan","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Survey of quality of life and related risk factors for a Taiwanese village population 21 months after an earthquake","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Psychological effects of the SARS outbreak in Hong Kong on high-risk health care workers","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Prospective study of posttraumatic stress, anxiety, and depression reactions after earthquake and political violence","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Hong Kong Government, SARS China, Department of Health. Latest figures on 2003 Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome Outbreak. Available from: http://www.info.gov.hk/info/sars/e_sars2003.htm.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"SARS control and psychological effects of Quarantine, Toronto, Canada","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Impact of Events Scale: a measure of subjective distress","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Posttraumatic symptoms and the complexity of responses to trauma","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Crisis support in the aftermath of disaster: a longitudinal perspective","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Lee MB, Rin H, Lin HN et al. A follow-up study of psychiatric outpatients with neurotic disorders. Report of National Science Council (ROC), NSC 75-0301-H002-13; 1987.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Acute respiratory distress syndrome in critically ill patients with Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Communicate with cancer patients, 2: handling uncertainty, collusion, and denial","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome: providing care in the uncertainty","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The immediate psychological and occupational impact of the 2003 SARS outbreak in a teaching hospital","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The experience of the 2003 SARS outbreak as a traumatic stress among frontline healthcare workers in Toronto: lessons learned","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Factors associated with the psychological impact of severe acute respiratory syndrome on nurses and other hospital workers in Toronto","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Sleep disturbance and its relationship to psychiatric morbidity after Hurricane Andrew","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The Mini-International Neuropsychiatric Interview (MINI). The development and validation of a structures diagnostic psychiatric interview for DSM-IV and ICD-10","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The measurement of disability","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome-related psychiatric and posttraumatic morbidities and coping responses in medical staff within a primary health care setting in Singapore","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Validity and reliability of the family function","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Prevalence and risk factors of insomnia in community-dwelling Chinese elderly: a Taiwanese urban area survey","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Update: Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome - United States, May 21. JAMA 2003;289:2495-96.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"World Health Organization. Summary table of SARS cases by country, 1 November 2002-7 August 2003. http://www.who.int/csr/sars/country/2003_08_15/en/ [accessed 20.12.03].","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The psychosocial challenges of caring for patients with Ebola virus disease","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Instructive messages from Chinese nurses'stories of caring for SARS patients","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The continuing 2019-nCoV epidemic threat of novel coronaviruses to global health:the latest 2019 novel coronavirus outbreak in Wuhan, China","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The Middle East Respiratory Syndrome (MERS)","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Severe acute respiratory syndrome: historical, epidemiologic, and clinical features","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1136/bmj.m56","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Pneumonia in China: lack of information raises concerns among Hong Kong health workers","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Taking forward a' One Health' approach for turning the tide against the Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus and other zoonotic pathogens with epidemic potential","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"ProMED &quot;Novel coronavirus - China (01): (HU) WHO, phylogenetic tree&quot;. Archive Number: 20200112.6885385. Accessed 13 Jan 2020. https://www.ecohealthalliance.org/2020/01/phylogenetic-analysis-shows-novel-wuhan-coronavirus-clusters-with-sars.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The mental health of medical workers in Wuhan, China dealing with the 2019 novel coronavirus","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[{"doi":"10.1016/S0140-6736(20)30185-9","date":"1970-01-01","title":"A novel coronavirus outbreak of global health concern","abstract":"","id":"PMC7135038","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Elsevier Ltd.","authors":[{"firstname":"Chen","surname":"Wang","email":"cyh-birm@263.net","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Peter W","surname":"Horby","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Frederick G","surname":"Hayden","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"George F","surname":"Gao","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.1016/S0140-6736(20)30186-0","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Emerging understandings of 2019-nCoV","abstract":"","id":"PMC7134625","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Elsevier Ltd.","authors":[{"firstname":"NULL","surname":"The Lancet","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Occupational injury insurance supports occupational injury &quot;protection umbrella&quot; for prevention and rescue personnel in the fight against new coronavirus pneumonia","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The guideline of psychological crisis intervention for 2019-nCoV pneumonia","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Mental health after the Boston marathon bombing","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Timely mental health care for the 2019 novel coronavirus outbreak is urgently needed","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[{"doi":"10.1016/S0140-6736(20)30185-9","date":"1970-01-01","title":"A novel coronavirus outbreak of global health concern","abstract":"","id":"PMC7135038","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Elsevier Ltd.","authors":[{"firstname":"Chen","surname":"Wang","email":"cyh-birm@263.net","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Peter W","surname":"Horby","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Frederick G","surname":"Hayden","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"George F","surname":"Gao","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Coronavirus outbreak: 444 new cases added on Friday. Jan 25, 2020. China Daily","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Outcomes of SARS survivors in China: not only physical and psychiatric co-morbidities","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/S0140-6736(20)30154-9","date":"1970-01-01","title":"A familial cluster of pneumonia associated with the 2019 novel coronavirus indicating person-to-person transmission: a study of a family cluster","abstract":"Background\nAn ongoing outbreak of pneumonia associated with a novel coronavirus was reported in Wuhan city, Hubei province, China.\n\n Affected patients were geographically linked with a local wet market as a potential source.\n\n No data on person-to-person or nosocomial transmission have been published to date.\n\n\nMethods\nIn this study, we report the epidemiological, clinical, laboratory, radiological, and microbiological findings of five patients in a family cluster who presented with unexplained pneumonia after returning to Shenzhen, Guangdong province, China, after a visit to Wuhan, and an additional family member who did not travel to Wuhan.\n\n Phylogenetic analysis of genetic sequences from these patients were done.\n\n\nFindings\nFrom Jan 10, 2020, we enrolled a family of six patients who travelled to Wuhan from Shenzhen between Dec 29, 2019 and Jan 4, 2020. Of six family members who travelled to Wuhan, five were identified as infected with the novel coronavirus.\n\n Additionally, one family member, who did not travel to Wuhan, became infected with the virus after several days of contact with four of the family members.\n\n None of the family members had contacts with Wuhan markets or animals, although two had visited a Wuhan hospital.\n\n Five family members (aged 36–66 years) presented with fever, upper or lower respiratory tract symptoms, or diarrhoea, or a combination of these 3–6 days after exposure.\n\n They presented to our hospital (The University of Hong Kong-Shenzhen Hospital, Shenzhen) 6–10 days after symptom onset.\n\n They and one asymptomatic child (aged 10 years) had radiological ground-glass lung opacities.\n\n Older patients (aged &gt;60 years) had more systemic symptoms, extensive radiological ground-glass lung changes, lymphopenia, thrombocytopenia, and increased C-reactive protein and lactate dehydrogenase levels.\n\n The nasopharyngeal or throat swabs of these six patients were negative for known respiratory microbes by point-of-care multiplex RT-PCR, but five patients (four adults and the child) were RT-PCR positive for genes encoding the internal RNA-dependent RNA polymerase and surface Spike protein of this novel coronavirus, which were confirmed by Sanger sequencing.\n\n Phylogenetic analysis of these five patients' RT-PCR amplicons and two full genomes by next-generation sequencing showed that this is a novel coronavirus, which is closest to the bat severe acute respiatory syndrome (SARS)-related coronaviruses found in Chinese horseshoe bats.\n\n\nInterpretation\nOur findings are consistent with person-to-person transmission of this novel coronavirus in hospital and family settings, and the reports of infected travellers in other geographical regions.\n\n\nFunding\nThe Shaw Foundation Hong Kong, Michael Seak-Kan Tong, Respiratory Viral Research Foundation Limited, Hui Ming, Hui Hoy and Chow Sin Lan Charity Fund Limited, Marina Man-Wai Lee, the Hong Kong Hainan Commercial Association South China Microbiology Research Fund, Sanming Project of Medicine (Shenzhen), and High Level-Hospital Program (Guangdong Health Commission).\n\n\n","id":"PMC7159286","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Elsevier Ltd.","authors":[{"firstname":"Jasper Fuk-Woo","surname":"Chan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Shuofeng","surname":"Yuan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Kin-Hang","surname":"Kok","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Kelvin Kai-Wang","surname":"To","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hin","surname":"Chu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jin","surname":"Yang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Fanfan","surname":"Xing","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jieling","surname":"Liu","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Cyril Chik-Yan","surname":"Yip","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Rosana Wing-Shan","surname":"Poon","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Hoi-Wah","surname":"Tsoi","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Simon Kam-Fai","surname":"Lo","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Kwok-Hung","surname":"Chan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Vincent Kwok-Man","surname":"Poon","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Wan-Mui","surname":"Chan","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jonathan Daniel","surname":"Ip","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Jian-Piao","surname":"Cai","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Vincent Chi-Chung","surname":"Cheng","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Honglin","surname":"Chen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Christopher Kim-Ming","surname":"Hui","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Kwok-Yung","surname":"Yuen","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Principles for emergency psychological crisis intervention for the new coronavirus pneumonia (in Chinese)","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Recommendations on diagnostic criteria and prevention of SARS-related mental disorders","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The immediate psychological and occupational impact of the 2003 SARS outbreak in a teaching hospital","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The psychological impact of the SARS epidemic on hospital employees in China: exposure, risk perception, and altruistic acceptance of risk","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Wei YL, Han B, Liu W, Liu G, Huang Y. Psychosomatic discomfort and related factors among 1,411 first-line SARS staff in Beijing. Manual of the 7th national experimental medicine symposium of Chinese Society of Integrated Traditional Chinese and Western Medicine; Beijing, China; July, 2004: 6-12 (in Chinese).","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Promoting psychological well-being in the face of serious illness: when theory, research and practice inform each other","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Working experiences of nurses during the Middle East respiratory syndrome outbreak","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[{"doi":"10.1186/s13613-016-0203-z","date":"2016-10-11","title":"The critical care response to a hospital outbreak of Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus (MERS-CoV) infection: an observational study","abstract":"Background\n\nMiddle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus (MERS-CoV) has caused several hospital outbreaks, including a major outbreak at King Abdulaziz Medical City, a 940-bed tertiary-care hospital in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia (August–September 2015).\n\n To learn from our experience, we described the critical care response to the outbreak.\n\n\nMethods\n\nThis observational study was conducted at the Intensive Care Department which covered 5 ICUs with 60 single-bedded rooms.\n\n We described qualitatively and, as applicable, quantitatively the response of intensive care services to the outbreak.\n\n The clinical course and outcomes of healthcare workers (HCWs) who had MERS were noted.\n\n\nResults\n\nSixty-three MERS patients were admitted to 3 MERS-designated ICUs during the outbreak (peak census = 27 patients on August 25, 2015, and the last new case on September 13, 2015).\n\n Most patients had multiorgan failure.\n\n Eight HCWs had MERS requiring ICU admission (median stay = 28 days): Seven developed acute respiratory distress syndrome, four were treated with prone positioning, four needed continuous renal replacement therapy and one had extracorporeal membrane oxygenation.\n\n The hospital mortality of ICU MERS patients was 63.4 % (0 % for the HCWs).\n\n In response to the outbreak, the number of negative-pressure rooms was increased from 14 to 38 rooms in 3 MERS-designated ICUs.\n\n Patients were managed with a nurse-to-patient ratio of 1:0.8. Infection prevention practices were intensified.\n\n As a surrogate, surface disinfectant and hand hygiene gel consumption increased by ~30 % and 17 N95 masks were used per patient/day on average.\n\n Family visits were restricted to 2 h/day.\n\n Although most ICU staff expressed concerns about acquiring MERS, all reported to work normally.\n\n During the outbreak, 27.0 % of nurses and 18.4 % of physicians working in the MERS-designated ICUs reported upper respiratory symptoms, and were tested for MERS-CoV.\n\n Only 2/196 (1.0 %) ICU nurses and 1/80 (1.3 %) physician tested positive, had mild disease and recovered fully.\n\n The total sick leave duration was 138 days for nurses and 30 days for physicians.\n\n\nConclusions\n\nOur hospital outbreak of MERS resulted in 63 patients requiring organ support and prolonged ICU stay with a high mortality rate.\n\n The ICU response required careful facility and staff management and proper infection control and prevention practices.\n\n\n","id":"PMC5078123","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Springer Paris","authors":[{"firstname":"Hasan M.","surname":"Al-Dorzi","email":"aldorzih@yahoo.com","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Abdulaziz S.","surname":"Aldawood","email":"aldawooda@hotmail.com","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Raymond","surname":"Khan","email":"raymondkhan@yahoo.com","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Salim","surname":"Baharoon","email":"baharoon@hotmail.com","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"John D.","surname":"Alchin","email":"Alchinjo@ngha.med.sa","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Amal A.","surname":"Matroud","email":"Matrouda@ngha.med.sa","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Sameera M.","surname":"Al Johany","email":"JohaniS@ngha.med.sa","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Hanan H.","surname":"Balkhy","email":"balkhyh@hotmail.com","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Yaseen M.","surname":"Arabi","email":"Arabi@ngha.med.sa","contributions":"3"}]},{"doi":"10.3201/eid2211.160920","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Risk Factors for Middle East Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus Infection among Healthcare Personnel","abstract":"Infections occurred exclusively among personnel who had close contact with MERS-CoV patients.\n","id":"PMC5088034","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Centers for Disease Control and Prevention","authors":[{"firstname":"Basem M.","surname":"Alraddadi","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Hanadi S.","surname":"Al-Salmi","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Kara","surname":"Jacobs-Slifka","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Rachel B.","surname":"Slayton","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Concepcion F.","surname":"Estivariz","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Andrew I.","surname":"Geller","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Hanan H.","surname":"Al-Turkistani","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Sanaa S.","surname":"Al-Rehily","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Haleema A.","surname":"Alserehi","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ghassan Y.","surname":"Wali","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Abeer N.","surname":"Alshukairi","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Esam I.","surname":"Azhar","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Lia","surname":"Haynes","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"David L.","surname":"Swerdlow","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"John A.","surname":"Jernigan","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Tariq A.","surname":"Madani","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.1007/s11684-016-0446-y","date":"2016-03-21","title":"Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus: current situation and travel-associated concerns","abstract":"The emergence of Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus (MERS-CoV) in 2012 brought back memories of the occurrence of severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus (SARS-CoV) in 2002. More than 1500 MERS-CoV cases were recorded in 42 months with a case fatality rate (CFR) of 40%.\n Meanwhile, 8000 cases of SARS-CoV were confirmed in six months with a CFR of 10%.\n The clinical presentation of MERS-CoV ranges from mild and non-specific presentation to progressive and severe pneumonia.\n No predictive signs or symptoms exist to differentiate MERS-CoV from community-acquired pneumonia in hospitalized patients.\n An apparent heterogeneity was observed in transmission.\n Most MERS-CoV cases were secondary to large outbreaks in healthcare settings.\n These cases were secondary to community-acquired cases, which may also cause family outbreaks.\n Travel-associated MERS infection remains low.\n However, the virus exhibited a clear tendency to cause large outbreaks outside the Arabian Peninsula as exemplified by the outbreak in the Republic of Korea.\n In this review, we summarize the current knowledge about MERS-CoV and highlight travel-related issues.\n","id":"PMC7089395","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Higher Education Press","authors":[{"firstname":"Jaffar A.","surname":"Al-Tawfiq","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ali S.","surname":"Omrani","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ziad A.","surname":"Memish","email":"zmemish@yahoo.com","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.1016/j.jiph.2016.04.006","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Preventing healthcare-associated transmission of the Middle East Respiratory Syndrome (MERS): Our Achilles heel","abstract":"Middle East Respiratory Syndrome (MERS) coronavirus is the most recent among the Coronaviridae family to jump species and infect humans.\n Major healthcare associated MERS outbreaks have occurred in the Middle East and Korea that affected both patients and healthcare workers.\n These outbreaks were characterized by intra and inter-hospital spread and were exacerbated specifically by overcrowding, delayed diagnosis and appropriate use of personal protective equipment.\n Recent experience with this virus emphasizes the importance of compliance with infection control practices and with other interventions addressing patient triage, placement and flow within and between healthcare facilities.\n Our Achilles heel remains compliance with the best infection prevention practices and their harmonization with patient flow.\n Both infection prevention compliance and maintenance of patient flow are critical in preventing healthcare-associated transmission of many of these emerging infectious diseases, including MERS.\n","id":"PMC7128197","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Production and hosting by Elsevier Limited on behalf of King Saud Bin Abdulaziz University for Health Sciences.","authors":[{"firstname":"Hanan H.","surname":"Balkhy","email":"balkhyh@hotmail.com","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Trish M.","surname":"Perl","email":"tperl@jhmi.edu","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Trish M.","surname":"Perl","email":"tperl@jhmi.edu","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yaseen M.","surname":"Arabi","email":"yaseenarabi@yahoo.com","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Yaseen M.","surname":"Arabi","email":"yaseenarabi@yahoo.com","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.4103/0019-5049.176286","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Middle East respiratory syndrome: A new global threat","abstract":"The outbreak of Middle East respiratory syndrome (MERS) is reported from Saudi Arabia and the Republic of Korea.\n It is a respiratory disease caused by coronavirus.\n Camels are considered as a source for MERS transmission in humans, although the exact source is unknown.\n Human-to-human transmission is reported in the community with droplet and contact spread being the possible modes.\n Most patients without any underlying diseases remain asymptomatic or develop mild clinical disease, but some patients require critical care for mechanical ventilation, dialysis and other organ support.\n MERS is a disease with pandemic potential and awareness, and surveillance can prevent such further outbreaks.\n","id":"PMC4787138","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Medknow Publications &amp; Media Pvt Ltd","authors":[{"firstname":"Pradeep Kumar","surname":"Bhatia","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Priyanka","surname":"Sethi","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Neeraj","surname":"Gupta","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ghansham","surname":"Biyani","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.3855/jidc.6925","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus (MERS-CoV) outbreak perceptions of risk and stress evaluation in nurses","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1177/0969733016648205","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Factors influencing emergency nurses' ethical problems during the outbreak of MERS-CoV","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/j.cnur.2010.02.008","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Uniformed Service Nurses' Experiences with the Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome Outbreak and Response in Taiwan","abstract":"Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS) had an enormous effect on Taiwan's public health and the nation's economy.\n To prevent the spread of the epidemic, the government implemented strategies and measures for the control of the epidemic.\n The Ministry of National Defense also fully supported epidemic prevention by mobilizing all necessary human and material resources.\n Under the plan executed by the Ministry of National Defense, the SongShan Armed Forces Hospital became Taiwan's first hospital dedicated exclusively for the treatment of patients with SARS.\n Uniformed Service Nurses' devoted to caring for patients with SARS during the outbreak made significant contributions to the prevention and control of SARS.\n","id":"PMC7094487","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Elsevier Inc.","authors":[{"firstname":"Tsui-Lan","surname":"Chou","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Li-Yuan","surname":"Ho","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Kwua-Yun","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Chi-Wen","surname":"Kao","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Meei-Horng","surname":"Yang","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Pao-Luo","surname":"Fan","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.1016/j.ijnurstu.2009.11.015","date":"2009-11-14","title":"The experiences of health care workers employed in an Australian intensive care unit during the H1N1 Influenza pandemic of 2009: A phenomenological study","abstract":"Background\nThe H1N1 Influenza A pandemic arrived in Australia in early May 2009. In Queensland, the highest number of H1N1 cases were admitted to the intensive care unit when compared with the other Australian states.\n\n While many recent studies examining the H1N1 pandemic have focussed on service delivery and disease epidemiology, few have explored the lived experiences of frontline health care workers caring for the patients in the intensive care unit.\n\n\nObjectives\nThe purposes of this study were to: document and describe the lived experiences of the nursing and medical staff caring for patients in the intensive care unit during the H1N1 pandemic; to validate the staffs’ experiences; and to assist in informing future pandemic planning by highlighting the collective experiences of these frontline health care workers.\n\n\nDesign\nA phenomenological study method was used.\n\n\nSetting and participants\n34 staff from a tertiary referral hospital in Brisbane, Australia participated in the study.\n\n\nMethods\nData was collected using an open ended questionnaire and focus groups.\n\n The resulting responses were analysed using Colaizzi's framework to discover regular patterns of meaning that emerged.\n\n\nResults\nEight common themes emerged: the wearing of personal protective equipment; infection control procedures; the fear of contracting and transmitting the disease; adequate staffing levels within the intensive care unit; new roles for staff; morale levels; education regarding extracorporeal membrane oxygenation; and the challenges of patient care.\n\n These eight themes articulate the lived experience of the staff during the height of the H1N1 Influenza pandemic period.\n\n\nConclusions\nPlanning for a pandemic situation is invariably difficult due to the unpredictable nature of the event itself.\n\n Recommendations for future pandemic planning which can be drawn from this study include the appointment of a dedicated infection control representative to provide information and support regarding infection control matters; the maintenance of effective communication channels is crucial; and the increased staffing requirements across nursing, medical, allied health and ancillary staff to cope with the higher patient numbers and acuity must be anticipated and planned for.\n\n\n","id":"PMC7125717","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Elsevier Ltd.","authors":[{"firstname":"Amanda","surname":"Corley","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Naomi E.","surname":"Hammond","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"John F.","surname":"Fraser","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.1016/j.jhin.2016.02.002","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Lessons learned from a prolonged and costly norovirus outbreak at a Scottish medicine of the elderly hospital: Case study","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1111/j.1478-5153.2012.00520.x","date":"1970-01-01","title":"New Zealand nurses perceptions of caring for patients with influenza A (H1N1)","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.3121/cmr.2016.1303","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Healthcare workers emotions, perceived stressors and coping strategies during a MERS-CoV outbreak","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.4178/epih/e2015033","date":"2015-07-21","title":"2015 MERS outbreak in Korea: hospital-to-hospital transmission","abstract":"The distinct characteristic of the Middle East Respiratory Syndrome (MERS) outbreak in South Korea is that it not only involves intra-hospital transmission, but it also involves hospital-to-hospital transmission.\n It has been the largest MERS outbreak outside the Middle East, with 186 confirmed cases and, among them, 36 fatal cases as of July 26, 2015. All confirmed cases are suspected to be hospital-acquired infections except one case of household transmission and two cases still undergoing examination.\n The Korean health care system has been the major factor shaping the unique characteristics of the outbreak.\n Taking this as an opportunity, the Korean government should carefully assess the fundamental problems of the vulnerability to hospital infection and make short- as well as long-term plans for countermeasures.\n In addition, it is hoped that this journal, Epidemiology and Health, becomes a place where various topics regarding MERS can be discussed and shared.\n","id":"PMC4533026","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Korean Society of Epidemiology","authors":[{"firstname":"Moran","surname":"Ki","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1016/j.phrp.2016.01.001","date":"2016-01-10","title":"The Characteristics of Middle Eastern Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus Transmission Dynamics in South Korea","abstract":"Objectives\nThe outbreak of Middle Eastern respiratory syndrome coronavirus (MERS-CoV) was one of the major events in South Korea in 2015. In particular, this study pays attention to formulating a mathematical model for MERS transmission dynamics and estimating transmission rates.\n\n\nMethods\nIncidence data of MERS-CoV from the government authority was analyzed for the first aim and a mathematical model was built and analyzed for the second aim of the study.\n\n A mathematical model for MERS-CoV transmission dynamics is used to estimate the transmission rates in two periods due to the implementation of intensive interventions.\n\n\nResults\nUsing the estimates of the transmission rates, the basic reproduction number was estimated in two periods.\n\n Due to the superspreader, the basic reproduction number was very large in the first period; however, the basic reproduction number of the second period has reduced significantly after intensive interventions.\n\n\nConclusion\nIt turned out to be the intensive isolation and quarantine interventions that were the most critical factors that prevented the spread of the MERS outbreak.\n\n The results are expected to be useful to devise more efficient intervention strategies in the future.\n\n\n","id":"PMC4776270","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Korea Centers for Disease Control and Prevention","authors":[{"firstname":"Yunhwan","surname":"Kim","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Sunmi","surname":"Lee","email":"sunmilee@khu.ac.kr","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Chaeshin","surname":"Chu","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Seoyun","surname":"Choe","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Saeme","surname":"Hong","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Youngseo","surname":"Shin","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.1111/j.1440-172X.2012.02018.x","date":"2011-07-01","title":"Nurses' perceptions of risk from emerging respiratory infectious diseases: A Singapore study","abstract":"Koh Y, Hegney D, Drury V.\n International Journal of Nursing Practice 2012; 18: 195–204","id":"PMC7165875","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Blackwell Publishing Asia","authors":[{"firstname":"Yiwen","surname":"Koh","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Desley","surname":"Hegney","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Vicki","surname":"Drury","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"10.1016/j.phrp.2015.08.006","date":"2015-08-27","title":"Middle East Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus Outbreak in the Republic of Korea, 2015","abstract":"Objectives\nThe outbreak of Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus (MERS-CoV) infection in the Republic of Korea started from the index case who developed fever after returning from the Middle East.\n\n He infected 26 cases in Hospital C, and consecutive nosocomial transmission proceeded throughout the nation.\n\n We provide an epidemiologic description of the outbreak, as of July 2015.\nMethods\nEpidemiological research was performed by direct interview of the confirmed patients and reviewing medical records.\n\n We also analyzed the incubation period, serial interval, the characteristics of superspreaders, and factors associated with mortality.\n\n Full genome sequence was obtained from sputum specimens of the index patient.\n\n\nResults\nA total of 186 confirmed patients with MERS-CoV infection across 16 hospitals were identified in the Republic of Korea.\n\n Some 44.1% of the cases were patients exposed in hospitals, 32.8% were caregivers, and 13.4% were healthcare personnel.\n\n The most common presenting symptom was fever and chills.\n\n The estimated incubation period was 6.83 days and the serial interval was 12.5 days.\n\n A total of 83.2% of the transmission events were epidemiologically linked to five superspreaders, all of whom had pneumonia at presentation and contacted hundreds of people.\n\n Older age [odds ratio (OR) = 4.86, 95% confidence interval (CI) 1.90–12.45] and underlying respiratory disease (OR = 4.90, 95% CI 1.64–14.65) were significantly associated with mortality.\n\n Phylogenetic analysis showed that the MERS-CoV of the index case clustered closest with a recent virus from Riyadh, Saudi Arabia.\n\n\nConclusion\nA single imported MERS-CoV infection case imposed a huge threat to public health and safety.\n\n This highlights the importance of robust preparedness and optimal infection prevention control.\n\n The lessons learned from the current outbreak will contribute to more up-to-date guidelines and global health security.\n\n\n","id":"PMC4588443","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Korea Centers for Disease Control and Prevention","authors":[{"firstname":"NULL","surname":"NULL","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.4178/epih/e2015040","date":"2015-08-29","title":"Strengthening epidemiologic investigation of infectious diseases in Korea: lessons from the Middle East Respiratory Syndrome outbreak","abstract":"The recent outbreak of Middle East Respiratory Syndrome (MERS) coronavirus infection in Korea resulted in large socioeconomic losses.\n This provoked the Korean government and the general public to recognize the importance of having a well-established system against infectious diseases.\n Although epidemiologic investigation is one of the most important aspects of prevention, it has been pointed out that much needs to be improved in Korea.\n We review here the current status of the Korean epidemiologic service and suggest possible supplementation measures.\n We examine the current national preventive infrastructure, including human resources such as Epidemic Intelligence Service officers, its governmental management, and related policies.\n In addition, we describe the practical application of these resources to the recent MERS outbreak and the progress in preventive measures.\n The spread of MERS demonstrated that the general readiness for emerging infectious diseases in Korea is considerably low.\n We believe that it is essential to increase society’s investment in disease prevention.\n Fostering public health personnel, legislating management policies, and establishing research centers for emerging infectious diseases are potential solutions.\n Evaluating international preventive systems, developing cooperative measures, and initiating improvements are necessary.\n We evaluated the Korean epidemiologic investigation system and the public preventive measures against infectious diseases in light of the recent MERS outbreak.\n We suggest that governmental authorities in Korea enforce preventive policies, foster the development of highly qualified personnel, and increase investment in the public health domain of infectious disease prevention.\n","id":"PMC4616012","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Korean Society of Epidemiology","authors":[{"firstname":"Changhwan","surname":"Lee","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Moran","surname":"Ki","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1111/j.1365-2702.2009.02857.x","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Instructive messages from Chinese nurses' stories of caring for SARS patients","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1016/j.jhin.2008.09.005","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Personal protective equipment in an influenza pandemic: A UK simulation exercise","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Pandemic preparedness: Implementation of infection prevention emergency plans","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1371/journal.pone.0173234","date":"2017-02-19","title":"Worry experienced during the 2015 Middle East Respiratory Syndrome (MERS) pandemic in Korea","abstract":"Background\nKorea failed in its risk communication during the early stage of the Middle East Respiratory Syndrome (MERS) outbreak; consequently, it faced difficulties in managing MERS, while disease-related worry increased.\n\n Disease-related worry can help disease prevention and management, but can also have a detrimental effect.\n\n This study measured the overall level of disease-related worry during the MERS outbreak period in Korea and the influencing factors and levels of disease-related worry during key outbreak periods.\n\n\nMethods\nThe cross-sectional survey included 1,000 adults who resided in Korea.\n\n An ordinal logistic regression was performed for the overall level of MERS-related worry, and influencing factors of worry were analyzed.\n\n A reliability test was performed on the levels of MERS-related worry during key outbreak periods.\n\n\nResults\nThe overall level of MERS-related worry was 2.44. Multivariate analysis revealed that women and respondents w very poor subjective health status had higher levels of worry.\n\n Respondents with very high stress in daily life had higher levels of worry than those who reported having little stress.\n\n The reliability test results on MERS-related worry scores during key outbreak periods showed consistent scores during each period.\n\n\nConclusion\nLevel of worry increased in cases having higher perceived susceptibility and greater trust in informal information, while initial stage of outbreak was closely associated with that at later stages.\n\n These findings suggest the importance of managing the level of worry by providing timely and accurate disease-related information during the initial stage of disease outbreak.\n\n\n","id":"PMC5342218","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Public Library of Science","authors":[{"firstname":"Jun-Soo","surname":"Ro","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jin-Seok","surname":"Lee","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Sung-Chan","surname":"Kang","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Hye-Min","surname":"Jung","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Gui-Quan","surname":"Sun","email":"NULL","contributions":"3"},{"firstname":"Gui-Quan","surname":"Sun","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.1097/NNA.0000000000000261","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Nurses' perceptions on ebola care in the United States, part 2: A qualitative analysis","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.4172/2472-1654.100070","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Communicating the changing role of a nurse in an epidemic: The example of the MERS-CoV outbreak in Saudi Arabia","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1093/intqhc/mzm042","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Consolidated criteria for reporting qualitative research (COREQ): A 32-item checklist for interviews and focus groups","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1371/journal.pone.0144778","date":"2015-11-23","title":"Modeling the Transmission of Middle East Respirator Syndrome Corona Virus in the Republic of Korea","abstract":"The 2015 epidemic of Middle East respiratory syndrome (MERS) in the Republic of Korea has been the largest outbreak outside Middle East.\n This epidemic had caused 185 laboratory-confirmed cases and 36 deaths in the Republic of Korea until September 2, 2015, which attracted public’s attention.\n Based on the detailed data of patients released by World Health Organization (WHO) and actual propagation of the epidemic, we construct two dynamical models to simulate the propagation processes from May 20 to June 8 and from June 9 to July 10, 2015, respectively and find that the basic reproduction number R\n0 reaches up to 4.422. The numerical analysis shows that the reasons of the outbreak spread quickly are lack of self-protection sense and targeted control measures.\n Through partial correction analysis, the parameters ?\n1 and ? have strong correlations with R\n0, i.\ne.\n, the infectivity and proportion of the asymptomatic infected cases have much influence on the spread of disease.\n By sensitivity analysis, strengthening self-protection ability of susceptible and quickly isolating or monitoring close contacts are effective measures to control the disease.\n","id":"PMC4686901","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Public Library of Science","authors":[{"firstname":"Zhi-Qiang","surname":"Xia","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Juan","surname":"Zhang","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Ya-Kui","surname":"Xue","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Gui-Quan","surname":"Sun","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"},{"firstname":"Zhen","surname":"Jin","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Zhen","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Zhen","surname":"Wang","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"10.3201/eid2111.151016","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Middle East Respiratory Syndrome in 3 Persons, South Korea, 2015","abstract":"In May 2015, Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus infection was laboratory confirmed in South Korea.\n Patients were a man who had visited the Middle East, his wife, and a man who shared a hospital room with the index patient.\n Rapid laboratory confirmation will facilitate subsequent prevention and control for imported cases.\n","id":"PMC4622265","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Centers for Disease Control and Prevention","authors":[{"firstname":"Jeong-Sun","surname":"Yang","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"SungHan","surname":"Park","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"You-Jin","surname":"Kim","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Hae Ji","surname":"Kang","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Hak","surname":"Kim","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Young Woo","surname":"Han","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Han Saem","surname":"Lee","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Dae-Won","surname":"Kim","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"A-Reum","surname":"Kim","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Deok Rim","surname":"Heo","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Joo Ae","surname":"Kim","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Su Jin","surname":"Kim","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jeong-Gu","surname":"Nam","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Hee-Dong","surname":"Jung","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Hyang-Min","surname":"Cheong","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Kisoon","surname":"Kim","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Joo-Shil","surname":"Lee","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Sung Soon","surname":"Kim","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"}]}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Facing SARS: psychological impacts on SARS team nurses and psychiatric services in a Taiwan general hospital","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Transmission dynamics of the etiological agent of SARS in Hong Kong: impact of public health interventions","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The mental health treatment team as a work group: team dynamics and the role of the leader","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The immediate psychological and occupational impact of the 2003 SARS outbreak in a teaching hospital","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Nurses' experience with vancomycin-resistant enterococci (VRE)","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Right to refuse work becomes another SARS issue","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Nurses' cognitive structural models of work-based stress","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Responding to the severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) outbreak: lessons learned in a Toronto emergency department","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"SARS: prudence, not panic","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"SARS: looking back over the first 100 days","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Disaster: the helper's perspective","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Posttraumatic distress and coping strategies among rescue workers after an earthquake","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"National Health Commission of the People's Republic of China. The guideline of psychological crisis intervention for 2019-nCoV pneumonia. Available at: http://www.nhc.gov.cn/jkj/s3577/202001/6adc08b966594253b2b791be5c3b9467.shtml. Accessed January 27, 2020.","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Social support and psychological adjustment to SARS: the mediating role of self-care self-efficacy","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Relations of SARS-related stressors and coping to Chinese college students' psychological adjustment during the 2003 Beijing SARS epidemic","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The psychological impact of severe acute respiratory syndrome outbreak on healthcare workers in emergency departments and how they cope","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The impact of the 9-21 earthquake experiences of Taiwanese nurses as rescuers","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Knowledge, attitude and anxiety towards pandemic flu a potential bio weapon among health professionals in Indore City","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Healthcare workers'willingness to work during an influenza pandemic: a systematic review and meta-analysis","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Preliminary estimates of mortality and years of life lost associated with the 2009 A/H1N1 pandemic in the US and comparison with past influenza seasons","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Estimating the burden of 2009 pandemic influenza A (H1N1) in the United States (April 2009-April 2010)","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Influenza-associated hospitalizations in the United States","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Complications among adults hospitalized with influenza: a comparison of seasonal influenza and the 2009 H1N1 pandemic","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Pandemic influenza and hospital resources","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"H1NI (Pandemic 2009): how prepared are healthcare providers in Calabar, Nigeria?","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The GP's response to pandemic influenza: a qualitative study","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Willingness of health care personnel to work in a disaster: an integrative review of the literature","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Factors associated with the willingness of health care personnel to work during an influenza public health emergency: an integrative review","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"An international registry of systematic-review protocols","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Are healthcare workers' intentions to vaccinate related to their knowledge, beliefs and attitudes? A systematic review","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Meta-analysis in clinical trials","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Measuring inconsistency in meta-analyses","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Influenza vaccination for immunocompromised patients: systematic review and meta-analysis from a public health policy perspective","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Graphical display of estimates having differing standard errors","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Bias in meta-analysis detected by a simple, graphical test","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Will the community nurse continue to function during H1N1 influenza pandemic: a cross-sectional study of Hong Kong community nurses?","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Perspectives of future physicians on disaster medicine and public health preparedness: challenges of building a capable and sustainable auxiliary medical workforce","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Will emergency health care providers respond to mass casualty incidents?","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"How would Australian hospital staff react to an avian influenza admission, or an influenza pandemic?","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Incidence of influenza in healthy adults and healthcare workers: a systematic review and meta-analysis","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Estimating household and community transmission parameters for influenza","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Introduction: why a sociology of pandemics?","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Putting the fear back into fear appeals: the extended parallel process model","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Hospital-associated outbreak of Middle East respiratory syndrome Coronavirus: a serologic, epidemiologic, and clinical description","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Hospital outbreak of Middle East respiratory syndrome Coronavirus","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Gauging US emergency medical services workers' willingness to respond to pandemic influenza using a threat-and efficacy-based assessment framework","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Assessment of local public health workers' willingness to respond to pandemic influenza through application of the extended parallel process model","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Assessment of medical reserve corps volunteers' emergency response willingness using a threat-and efficacy-based model","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Determinants of emergency response willingness in the local public health workforce by jurisdictional and scenario patterns: a cross-sectional survey","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Nurses' ability and willingness to work during pandemic flu","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Health care workers' ability and willingness to report to work during public health emergencies","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Hospital health care workers' understanding of and attitudes toward pandemic influenza in Beijing","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Who will show up? Estimating ability and willingness of essential hospital personnel to report to work in response to a disaster","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"&quot;Will they just pack up and leave?&quot;-attitudes and intended behaviour of hospital health care workers during an influenza pandemic","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Characterizing hospital workers' willingness to report to duty in an influenza pandemic through threat-and efficacy-based assessment","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Ethical planning for an influenza pandemic","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Survey study of the knowledge, attitudes, and expected behaviors of critical care clinicians regarding an influenza pandemic","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Hospital disaster staffing: if you call, will they come?","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Willingness of university nursing students to volunteer during a pandemic","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Preparing for an influenza pandemic: healthcare workers' opinions on working during a pandemic","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Willingness of frontline health care workers to work during a public health emergency","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Factors associated with the ability and willingness of essential workers to report to duty during a pandemic","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Will the NHS continue to function in an influenza pandemic? A survey of healthcare workers in the West Midlands, UK","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Healthcare workers' perceptions of the duty to work during an influenza pandemic","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Evaluation of a pandemic preparedness training intervention of emergency medical services personnel","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Pre-pandemic planning survey of healthcare workers at a tertiary care children's hospital: ethical and workforce issues","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Anticipated behaviors of emergency prehospital medical care providers during an influenza pandemic","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Assessing public health department employees' willingness to report to work during an influenza pandemic","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Local public health workers' perceptions toward responding to an influenza pandemic","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Senior clinical nurses effectively contribute to the pandemic influenza public health response","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Pandemic-related ability and willingness in home healthcare workers","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Mitigating absenteeism in hospital workers during a pandemic","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Knowledge and anticipated behavior of health care workers in response to an outbreak of pandemic influenza in Georgia","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"A national survey of emergency nurses and avian influenza threat","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Are Belgian senior medical students ready to deliver basic medical care in case of a H5N1 pandemic?","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Ensuring adequate human medical resources during an avian influenza A/H5N1 pandemic","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Nurses' fears and professional obligations concerning possible human-to-human avian flu","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Survey of hospital healthcare personnel response during a potential avian influenza pandemic: will they come to work","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Knowledge and attitudes of healthcare workers in Chinese intensive care units regarding 2009 H1N1 influenza pandemic","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Perception, attitudes and knowledge regarding the 2009 swine-origin influenza A (H1N1) virus pandemic among health-care workers in Australia","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Influenza vaccination and intention to receive the pandemic H1N1 influenza vaccine among healthcare workers of British Columbia, Canada: a cross-sectional study","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Nurses' perspectives and concerns towards an infectious disease epidemic in Egypt","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Influenza A H1NI (pandemic 2009): how prepared are healthcare providers in Calabar, Nigeria?","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Factors associated with motivation and hesitation to work among health professionals during a public crisis: a cross sectional study of hospital workers in Japan during the pandemic (H1N1) 2009","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Effects of optimism on recovery and mental health after a tornado outbreak","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[],"References depth 2":[{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Individual differences in optimism predict the recall of personally relevant information","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"A confirmatory factor analysis of the life orientation test - Revised with competitive athletes","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Predictions get tougher in older individuals: A longitudinal study of optimism, pessimism and depression","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The value of positive psychology for health psychology: progress and pitfalls in examining the relation of positive phenomena to health","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The strength model of self-control","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1186/1471-2458-6-208","date":"2006-08-15","title":"Emerging advantages and drawbacks of telephone surveying in public health research in Ireland and the U.K","abstract":"Background\nTelephone surveys have been used widely in public health research internationally and are being increasingly used in Ireland and the U.\n\nK.\n\n\nMethods\nThis study compared three telephone surveys conducted on the island of Ireland from 2000 to 2004, examining study methodology, outcome measures and the per unit cost of each completed survey.\n\n We critically examined these population-based surveys which all explored health related attitudes and behaviours.\n\n\nResults\nOver the period from 2000 to 2005 the percentage of calls which succeeded in contacting an eligible member of the public fell, from 52.9% to 31.8%.\n\n There was a drop in response rates to the surveys (once contact was established) from 58.6% to 17.7%.\n\n Costs per completed interview rose from €4.48 to €15.65.\nConclusion\nResearchers should take cognisance of under-representativeness of land-line telephone surveys, of the increasing difficulties in contacting the public and of mounting personnel costs.\n\n We conclude that telephone surveying now requires additional strategies such as a multimode approach, or incentivisation, to be a useful, cost-effective means of acquiring data on public health matters in Ireland and the U.\n\nK.\n\n\n","id":"PMC1560130","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"BioMed Central","authors":[{"firstname":"M","surname":"Boland","email":"mairin.boland1@mailf.hse.ie","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"MR","surname":"Sweeney","email":"maryrose.sweeney@ucd.ie","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"E","surname":"Scallan","email":"bmd9@cdc.gov","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"M","surname":"Harrington","email":"mary.harrington@ucd.ie","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"A","surname":"Staines","email":"anthony.staines@gmail.ie","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Family recovery from natural disaster: A preliminary model","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Short screening scale for DSM-IV posttraumatic stress disorder","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Explanatory style and coronary heart disease","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Predicting outcome of military basic training for individuals referred for psychological evaluation","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Personality and coping","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Optimism versus pessimism predicts the quality of women's adjustment to early stage breast cancer","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Optimism","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Assessing the dimensionality of optimism and pessimism using a multimeasure approach","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The accuracy of the life orientation test-revised (LOT-R) in measuring dispositional optimism: Evidence from item response theory analyses","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Mortality from a tornado outbreak, Alabama, April 27, 2011","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Social relationships and health","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Counting blessings versus burdens: An experimental investigation of gratitude and subjective well-being in daily life","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Symptomatology and psychopathology of mental health problems after disaster","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Poverty and disasters in the United States: A review of recent sociological findings","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Prevalence of psychiatric disorder in Europe: The potential and reality of meta-analysis","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The epidemiology of post-traumatic stress disorder after disasters","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Dispositional optimism and engagement: The moderating influence of goal prioritization","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Preventing depression among early adolescents in the primary care setting: A randomized controlled study of the penn resiliency program","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Psychometric properties and population-based norms of the life orientation test revised (LOT-R)","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1186/s12889-015-2350-9","date":"2015-09-24","title":"A telephone survey of factors affecting willingness to participate in health research surveys","abstract":"Background\nIn recent years, reduced participation has been encountered across all epidemiological study designs, both in terms of non-response as well as refusal.\n\n A low response rate may reduce the statistical power but, more importantly, results may not be generalizable to the wider community.\n\n\nMethods\nIn a telephone survey of 1413 randomly selected members of the Australian general population and of 690 participants sourced from previous studies, we examined factors affecting people’s stated willingness to participate in health research.\n\n\nResults\nThe majority of participants (61 %) expressed willingness to participate in health research in general but the percentage increased when provided with more specific information about the research.\n\n People were more willing if they have personal experience of the disease under study, and if the study was funded by government or charity rather than pharmaceutical companies.\n\n\nConclusion\nDespite a trend toward reduced participation rates, most participants expressed their willingness to participate in health research.\n\n However, when seeking participants, researchers should be concrete and specific about the nature of the research they want to carry out.\n\n The preferred method of recommended contact varies with the demographic characteristics.\n\n\n","id":"PMC4594742","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"BioMed Central","authors":[{"firstname":"DC","surname":"Glass","email":"deborah.glass@monash.edu","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"HL","surname":"Kelsall","email":"helen.kelsall@monash.edu","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"C.","surname":"Slegers","email":"claudiamslegers@gmail.com","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"AB","surname":"Forbes","email":"andrew.forbes@monash.edu","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"B.","surname":"Loff","email":"bebe.loff@monash.edu","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"D.","surname":"Zion","email":"Deborah.Zion@vu.edu.au","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"L.","surname":"Fritschi","email":"lin.fritschi@curtin.edu.au","contributions":"1"}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"socioeconomic status in childhood and adulthood: Associations with dispositional optimism and pessimism over a 21-year follow-up","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Separating optimism and pessimism: A robust psychometric analysis of the revised life orientation test (LOT-R)","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"What works in mental health promotion","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Interventions for enhancing subjective well-being: can we make people happier and should we?","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Mental health promotion in public health: Perspectives and strategies from positive psychology","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"When time is running out: Changes in positive future perception and their relationships to changes in well-being in old age","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The PHQ-8 as a measure of current depression in the general population","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Optimism and pessimism in the context of health: Bipolar opposites or separate constructs?","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Positive psychology in clinical practice","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"An academic-government-faith partnership to build disaster mental health preparedness and community resilience","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The course of mental health disorders after a disaster: Predictors and comorbidity","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Dispositional optimism and coping: A meta-analytic review","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Disasters in urban context","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"60,000 disaster victims speak: Part II. Summary and implications of the disaster mental health research","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Examining a comprehensive model of disaster-related posttraumatic stress disorder in systematically studied survivors of 10 disasters","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"10.1371/journal.pone.0038964","date":"2012-05-14","title":"Resilience in the Face of Disaster: Prevalence and Longitudinal Course of Mental Disorders following Hurricane Ike","abstract":"Objectives\nNatural disasters may increase risk for a broad range of psychiatric disorders, both in the short- and in the medium-term.\n\n We sought to determine the prevalence and longitudinal course of posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD), generalized anxiety disorder (GAD), panic disorder (PD), depression, and suicidality in the first 18 months after Hurricane Ike.\n\n\nMethods\nSix hundred fifty-eight adults representative of Galveston and Chambers Counties, Texas participated in a random, population-based survey.\n\n The initial assessment was conducted 2 to 5 months after Hurricane Ike struck Galveston Bay on September 13, 2008. Follow-up assessments were conducted at 5 to 9 and 14 to 18 months after Hurricane Ike.\n\n\nResults\nPast-month prevalence of any mental disorder (20.6% to 10.9%) and hurricane-related PTSD (6.9% to 2.5%) decreased over time.\n\n Past-month prevalence of PTSD related to a non-disaster traumatic event (5.8% to 7.1%), GAD (3.1% to 1.8%), PD (0.8% to 0.7%), depression (5.0% to 5.6%), and suicidality (2.6% to 4.2%) remained relatively stable over time.\n\n\nConclusions\nPTSD, both due to the hurricane and due to other traumatic events, was the most prevalent psychiatric disorder 2 to 5 months after Hurricane Ike.\n\n Prevalence of psychiatric disorders declined rapidly over time, suggesting that the vast majority of individuals exposed to this natural disaster ‘bounced back’ and were resilient to long-term mental health consequences of this large-scale traumatic event.\n\n\n","id":"PMC3383685","idformat":"PMC","foundapis":"_PMC","miscinfo":"Public Library of Science","authors":[{"firstname":"Robert H.","surname":"Pietrzak","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Melissa","surname":"Tracy","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Sandro","surname":"Galea","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Dean G.","surname":"Kilpatrick","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Kenneth J.","surname":"Ruggiero","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Jessica L.","surname":"Hamblen","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Steven M.","surname":"Southwick","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Fran H.","surname":"Norris","email":"NULL","contributions":"1"},{"firstname":"Leonardo","surname":"Fontenelle","email":"NULL","contributions":"2"},{"firstname":"Leonardo","surname":"Fontenelle","email":"NULL","contributions":"0"}]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Optimism and physical health: A meta-analytic review","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Method effects due to social desirability as a parsimonious explanation of the deviation from unidimensionality in LOT-R scores","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Master resilience training in the US Army","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Distinguishing optimism from pessimism in older adults: Is it more important to be optimistic or not to be pessimistic?","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Relation of implicit bias theories to the construction of personal histories","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Optimism and pessimism: Underlying structure and dimensionality","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Distinguishing optimism from neuroticism (and trait anxiety, self-mastery, and self-esteem): A reevaluation of the life orientation test","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Optimism and resources: Effects on each other and on health over 10 years","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Optimism and pessimism dimensions in the life orientation test-revised: Method and meaning","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Positive education: Positive psychology and classroom interventions","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The prevention of depression and anxiety","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Psychological distress after physical injury: A one-year follow-up study of conscious hospitalized patients","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Delayed posttraumatic stress disorder: Systematic review, meta-analysis, and meta-regression analysis of prospective studies","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Consistency of memory for combas-related traumatic events in veterans of operation desert storm","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"A brief measure for assessing generalized anxiety disorder: the GAD-7","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Optimism in close relationships: How seeing things in a positive light makes them so","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"A prospective evaluation of the directionality of the depression-inflammation relationship","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Anger, anxiety, and depression as risk factors for cardiovascular disease: The problems and implications of overlapping affective dispositions","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Look on the bright side: do the benefits of optimism depend on the social nature of the stressor?","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Social relationships and health behavior across life course","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The association between dispositional optimism and mental health problems among disaster victims and a comparison group: A prospective study","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"Social support as mediator of the stress buffering effect of optimism: The importance of differentiating the recipients' and providers' perspective","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]},{"doi":"NULL","date":"1970-01-01","title":"The Great 2008 Chinese ice storm: Its socioeconomic-ecological impact and sustainability lessons learned","abstract":"Unknown Abstract","id":"not found","idformat":"N/A","foundapis":"","miscinfo":"","authors":[]}]}]}]}